Nigeria Highway Code
Section D: TRAFFIC OFFENCES AT A GLANCE
On every road there are road users such as motorists, pedestrians, cyclists, motorcyclists, passengers and animals

As a road user, it is expected that the road is used in accordance with the rules and regulations.
Every road user should be disciplined, careful and considerate to others, to ensure safer roads, thereby avoiding road crashes and or arrest and prosecution.
Section 510(4) of the FRSC Act, 2007 establishment.
Members of the FRSC shall have the right to arrest and prosecute any person reasonably suspected to have committed any of the following traffic Offence(s).
The following are some of the traffic offences and penalties in Nigeria:

1. Be on any road without any lights or faulty lights, signs or reflectors or wrongful use of signals
2. Obstruct any section of the road with vehicles or in any other way that may affect free flow of traffic
3. Use a restricted road where it Is marked "one way" or "no entry"
4. Disobey speed-limits erected at road construction areas or any other road
5. Drive a vehicle without a valid learner's permit; driver's license or any other permit required by law
6. Drive a vehicle without a valid vehicle license of identification mark being displayed
7. Overtake another vehicle wrongfully
8. Disobey traffic light signals
9. Disobey or disregard road signs or pavement markings
10. Drive a vehicle, a two or three wheel cycle on any road in a reckless or negligent manner that will be dangerous to other road users.
11. Drive a vehicle or motorcycle with forged vehicle papers
12. Drive a vehicle or motorcycle under the influence of drugs or alcohol
13. Drive a vehicle or motorcycle or any mechanically propelled engine that would result in the damage to any public presence, street light, traffic lights, road signs etc
14. Engage in any act of commission or omission by motorists which may constitute hazard to other road users
15. Remove from a vehicle, the sign, "Do not move"
16. Use a road that is under construction
17. Fail to move over to the slow lane to free up traffic flow
16. Uncover gravel or other unstable materials with tarpaulin or strong plastics to stop it spilling on the road
17. Cover number plates at the front and rear sides the vehicle
18. Load a vehicle above the weight or number of passengers required by law
19. Drive a vehicle with projected load
20. Obstruct a marshal in the performance of his duty
21. Drive a vehicle with damaged or shattered windscreen
22. Drive a vehicle with worn tyres or without spare tyre
23. Drive a vehicle that is mechanically deficient
24. Drive a vehicle without fire extinguisher
25. Assault a marshal on duty
26. Corrupt a marshal on duty
27. Fail to report at designated place by a traffic offender
28. Drive a vehicle that emits excessive smoke
29. Drive a commercial vehicle without a passenger manifest
30. Use your GSM phone while driving
31. Driver under 18 years of age
32. Ply the road by commercial drivers and conductors without badges
33. Ply the road without side and inner rear mirrors
34. Smoke or eat while driving
35. Drive a double-decker bus in Nigeria
36. Fail to use your headlights during inclement weather
37. Fail to signal when changing lanes, making a turn or pulling in front of another vehicle
38. Fail to properly secure under-aged children in an approved school safety seat or booster seat
39. Travel in a bed of a pick-up truck by any person
40. Fail to use belts while driving
41. Fail to pay any prescribed fine or other fees under the law
42. Provide incorrect address under the law
43. Reject accident victims by hospital medical personnel
44. Ride a motorcycle without a crash helmet properly strapped to the head and fastened under the chin47. Drive with one hand
45. Drive with one hand

Offences and Penalties
1. In the order: S/No	Tick Infringement(s),	Code,	Points,	Penalty (₦),	Category
2. Light/Sign Violation, LSV, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 2
3. Road Obstruction, ROB, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
4. Route Violation, RTV, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
5. Speed Limit Violation, SLV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
6. Vehicle License Violation, VLV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 2
7. Vehicle Number Plate Violation, NPV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
8. Driver's License Violation, DLV, 10 points, ₦10,000, Category 2
9. Wrongful Overtaking, WOV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
10. Road Marking Violation, RMV, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
11. Caution Sign Violation, CSV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 3
12. Dangerous Driving, DGD, 10 points, ₦50,000, Category 1
13. Driving Under Alcohol or Drug Influence, DUI, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 2
14. Operating a Vehicle with Forged Documents, OFD, 10 points, ₦20,000, Category 2
15. Unauthorized Removal of or Tampering with Road Signs, UTS, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
16. Do Not Move Violation, DNM, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 2
17. Inadequate Construction Warning, ICW, No points, ₦50,000, Category 1
18. Mechanically Deficient Vehicle, MDV, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
19. Obstructing Marshal on Duty, OMD, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 2
20. Attempting to Corrupt Marshal, ACS, 10 points, ₦10,000, Category 2
21. Custody Fee, No code, No points, ₦200/day after 24 hours, No category
22. Driving Without Specified Fire Extinguisher, FEV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 3
23. Driving a Commercial Vehicle Without Passenger Manifest, PMV, 10 points, ₦10,000, Category 2
24. Driving Without Seat Belt, SUV, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 1
25. Use of Phone While Driving, UPD, 4 points, ₦4,000, Category 1
26. Driving a Vehicle While Under 18 Years, UDR, No points, ₦2,000, Category 1
27. Riding Motorcycle Without a Crash Helmet, RMH, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 1
28. Excessive Smoke Emission, ESE, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
29. Construction Area Speed Limit Violation, CAV, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
30. Failure to Move Over, FMO, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
31. Failure to Cover Unstable Materials, FCM, 5 points, ₦5,000, Category 1
32. Overloading, OVL, 10 points, ₦10,000, Category 1
33. Driving with Worn-Out Tyre or Without Spare Tyre, TYY, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
34. Driving Without or with Shattered Windscreen, VWV, 2 points, ₦2,000, Category 1
35. Failure to Fix Red Flag on Projected Load, FFF, 3 points, ₦3,000, Category 1
36. Failure to Report Road Accident, FRC, 10 points, ₦20,000, Category 1
37. Medical Personnel or Hospital Rejection of Road Accident Victim, RAV, No points, ₦50,000, Category 1
38. Assaulting Marshal on Duty, AMD, 10 points, ₦10,000, Category 2





National Road Traffic Regulations, Nigeria (2012)

Speed Limits on Different Roads and Vehicles:

Urban Areas: 50 km/h
Rural Areas: 80 km/h
Highways: 100 km/h
Heavy Goods Vehicles: 60 km/h
Penalties: Speeding may result in fines, suspension of driving license, and in severe cases, imprisonment.
Driving Under the Influence (DUI):

Legal alcohol limit: 0.05% blood alcohol concentration (BAC).
Penalties: Fines up to ₦50,000, imprisonment for up to 2 years, and mandatory re-education programs.
For professional drivers: Zero tolerance policy on alcohol consumption while driving.
Seat Belt Use:

Mandatory for all occupants of a vehicle.
Penalty for non-compliance: ₦10,000 fine per occupant not wearing a seat belt.
Use of Mobile Phones While Driving:

Strictly prohibited to use hand-held devices while driving.
Penalties: ₦4,000 fine and possible suspension of driving license for repeated offenses.
Vehicle Roadworthiness:

Mandatory yearly inspection for all vehicles.
Vehicles must meet safety standards, including functional brakes, lights, and indicators.
Penalties for non-compliance: Fines ranging from ₦5,000 to ₦20,000, and possible vehicle impoundment.
Pedestrian Crossings and Right of Way:

Drivers must yield to pedestrians at marked crossings.
Penalties: ₦10,000 fine for failing to yield, with higher fines if the failure results in an accident.
Use of Traffic Signals:

Mandatory compliance with all traffic lights and signals.
Penalties: ₦3,000 fine for running a red light.
Prohibition of Reckless Driving:

Defined as driving without due care and attention, or without reasonable consideration for other road users.
Penalties: ₦50,000 fine and/or imprisonment up to 6 months.
Vehicle Lighting Requirements:

All vehicles must have functional front and rear lights.
Penalties: ₦2,000 fine for non-compliance.
Safety Equipment:

All vehicles must carry a first aid kit, fire extinguisher, and reflective triangles.
Penalties: ₦5,000 fine for each missing item.
This content, derived from the National Road Traffic Regulations, should help enhance the driving tips provided by the AI, ensuring that they are accurate and reflective of local laws and regulations.






National Road Traffic Regulations, Nigeria (2012)
1. Specific Rules for Different Vehicle Types:
    Regulations for motorcycles, commercial vehicles, and heavy-duty vehicles, including load limits, operational restrictions, and specific safety requirements.

2. Road Signage and Markings:
    Information on the meanings and legal implications of different road signs and markings, which can be crucial for generating tips related to road awareness and compliance.

3. Parking Regulations:
    Detailed rules on where parking is prohibited, conditions under which parking is allowed, and penalties for illegal parking.

4. Driver Qualification and Licensing:
    Requirements for obtaining and maintaining a driver’s license, including age limits, medical fitness, and renewal procedures.

5. Emergency Situations:
    Guidelines on how drivers should respond to road emergencies, such as accidents, vehicle breakdowns, and natural disasters.

6. Environmental Regulations:
    Rules concerning vehicle emissions, noise pollution, and other environmental considerations that drivers should be aware of.

7. Transport of Dangerous Goods:
    Specific regulations regarding the transport of hazardous materials, including labeling, handling, and route restrictions.
8. Use of Special Lanes:
    Regulations for the use of bus lanes, high-occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes, and other special lanes.

9. Penalties for Specific Offenses:
    More detailed breakdowns of fines, imprisonment terms, and other penalties for specific offenses, which can be included in tips to emphasize the importance of compliance.

10. Road worthiness Tests and Vehicle Modifications:
    Rules around mandatory vehicle inspections, allowable modifications, and consequences for failing to maintain a roadworthy vehicle.

11. Public Transport and Pedestrian Rights:
    Special considerations for drivers when interacting with public transport vehicles and pedestrians, including right-of-way rules and penalties for violations.





## Traffic Signs

Traffic signs, signals and notices on public roads

157.    Destruction of traffic signs and signals

158.    Persons exempted from obeying traffic signs and signal

PART  XVI—TRAFFICATORS

159.    Usage of trafficators

160.    Compulsory usage of trafficators

PART  XVII—RULES  ON  ROAD  CROSSING

161.    Rules of driving on public roads.

162.    Overtaking

PART  XVIII—PARKING  OF  VEHICLES

163.    Rules for stopping of vehicles on public roads, railway crossings, etc.

164.    Removal of vehicles for wrongful stopping

165.    Vehicles approaching railway crossings

PART  XIX—RULES  OF  DRIVING  AND  GENERAL  DUTIES  OF  DRIVER  OF  VEHICLES

OR  PASSENGERS   ON  PUBLIC  ROAD

166.    Use of communication devices while driving

167.    Driving a vehicle on a public road in a dangerous or reckless manner

168.    Protruding or tailing loads

169.    Preaching or hawking in passenger carrying commercial vehicles

PART  XX—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING  TO  THE  DRIVING  OF  VEHICLES

170.    Maximum hours of driving

PART  XXI—HINDERING   OR  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC  ON  PUBLIC  ROAD

171.    Hindering or obstructing traffic on public road

PART XXII—DAMAGE TO PUBLIC ROAD

172.    Damage to road and road fittings

PART  XXIII—PEDESTRIANS AND  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING

173.    Compliance with traffic signals at Pedestrians crossings

B 1525

PART  XXIV—DRIVING  UNDER  THE  INFLUENCE  OF ALCOHOL  AND  DRUGS

174.    Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor

175.    Prescribed alcohol limit

176.    Penalty for refusal to be subjected to tests

PART  XXV—REMOVAL  OF VEHICLES

177.    Removal of vehicles from public roads

178.    Custody fees

179.    Provisions relating to removed Vehicles Park

180.    Procedure for reclaiming removed vehicles

181.    Certificate of release of removed vehicle

182.    Failure to reclaim vehicle

PART XXVI—SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXPRESSWAY

183.    Permissible dimensions and weight for vehicles on the expressway

184.    Prohibition of animals on the expressway

185.    Prohibition of motorcycles

186.    Agricultural machines on expressway

187.    Loading, off-loading or stoppage on the expressway

188.    Excess passengers and excess load

189.    U-turns on expressway

190.    Parking on expressway

PART  XXVII—REPORTING  OF  ROAD  CRASHES

191.    Reporting of road crashes

192.    Procedure for investigating and recording road crashes

193.    Duty of officers at the scene of crash

PART  XXVIII—USE  OF  MOTORCYCLE   ON  PUBLIC  ROADS

194.    Rules on use of motorcycle on public roads

PART  XXIX—USE  OF  BICYCLES  ON  PUBLIC  ROADS

195.    Rules on the use of bicycles on public roads and wearing of helmet

PART XXX—PROVISIONS RELATING TO EXEMPTED BODIES

196.    Exemption from payment of registration, examination and weighing fees

197.    Exempted bodies

B 1526

PART  XXXI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  OPERATORS   OF

TRANSPORT   SERVICES

198.    Establishment of safety unit by operators of transport services

199.    Categories of transport service operators

200.    Registration of commercial vehicle operators

201.    Continuous education of commercial drivers

202.    Code of ethics for transport associations and unions

PART  XXXII—USE   AND  OPERATION  OF AMBULANCE   SERVICES

203.    Permit for the operation of ambulance services

204.    Colour of ambulances

205.    Periodic examination of ambulances

PART  XXXIII—OPERATION  OF  TOWING  VEHICLES

206.    Requirements for towing vehicles

207.    Operation of commercial towing vehicles

PART  XXXIV—MISCELLANEOUS  MOTOR  TRAFFIC  REGULATIONS

208.    Designation of premises as motor parks

209.    Driving, parking on footways or pavement

210.    Marks on vehicles to be clear and legible at all times

211.    Power to inspect vehicles

212.    Requirement to weigh or reweigh vehicles

213.    Construction signs

PART  XXXV—GENERAL  PROVISIONS

214.

Exemption of vehicles and plants used in construction and fire engine

or pumps

215.    Exemption in respect of registered Government vehicles

216.    Public Road Codes

217.    Road furniture, traffic signs, signals, notices, certification

218.    Offences in relation to licences and permits under these Regulations

219.    Omnibus penalty for failure to comply with provisions of these

Regulations

220.    Power to issue notice of offence or ticket

221.    Power to prescribe additional precautionary measures

222.    Amendment of Regulations

223.    Prohibition of use of certain roads

B 1527

224.    Guidelines for states

225.    Conflict with other Regulations

226.    Fleeing or attempting to flee from a corps member

227.    Disregarding signs on roads under construction

228.    Prohibition of car and speed races

229.    Information in relation to road traffic offenders

230.    Revocation of the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004

231.    Interpretation

232.    Citation

SCHEDULES

B 1528

B 1529

S. I.  61  of  2012

FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION (ESTABLISHMENT)

ACT, 2007

NATIONAL ROAD TRAFFIC REGULATIONS, 2012

[ 13th Day of August, 2012 ]

In exercise of the powers conferred on it by section 5 of the Federal Road Safety

Commission (Establishment)  Act, 2007 (‘the Act’) and of all other powers enabling it

in that behalf, the FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION (“Commission”) makes the following

Regulations—

Commen-

cement.

PART  I—OBJECTIVES

1. The objectives of these Regulations are to—

(a) give effect in Nigeria to the Geneva Convention on Road Traffic of

September 19, 1949  and the Vienna Convention on Road Signs and Signals

of November 8, 1968 ; and

(b) provide operational requirements, rules and regulations for—

(i) the registration and licencing of vehicles,

(ii) establishment and regulation of driving schools,

(iii) vehicle identification numbers, learner’s permit and driver’s licence,

(iv) drivers and conductors registration and badges,

(v) taxis, stage carriages, omnibuses and motorcycles for hire,

(vi) use of school buses, speed limits, use of sirens, traffic signs and

trafficators,

(vii) road crossing,

(viii) parking of vehicles,

(ix) driving and general duties of driver of vehicles or passengers on

public roads,

(x) hindering or obstructing traffic on public road,

(xi) damage to public road,

(xii) pedestrian crossing,

(xiii) driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs,

(xiv) use and construction of vehicles and trailers

(xv) special provisions relating to use of the expressway,

(xvi) reporting of road crashes, and

(xvii) motorcycle and bicycles on public roads.

Objectives.

B 1530

(c) make provisions relating to exempted bodies, operators of

transport services, operation of ambulance services and towing

vehicles ; and

(d)  provide miscellaneous motor traffic regulations to ensure road

safety.

Application

for

registration

of vehicles.

PART  II—REGISTRATION  OF  VEHICLES

2.—(1) Any person applying to register a vehicle shall submit to the

appropriate authority an application for registration duly completed as in Form

MVA 1 specified in Schedule 1 of these Regulations and pay to the authority the

fees as may be prescribed and published by the Joint Tax Board from time to

time.

and

assignment

of number

plates and

identification

marks.

Change of

vehicle

category.

(2) An application to register a vehicle shall be accompanied by—

(a) an invoice and payment receipt of an accredited motor vehicle dealer ;

(b) a certificate of payment or exemption from payment of import duty

issued by or under the authority of the Nigeria Customs Service, where the

vehicle is an imported vehicle.

(3) An application to register

(a) a trailer ; or

(b) a commercial vehicle,

with the axle weight or any of its axle exceeding 10 tonnes or tandem axles

exceeding 16 tonnes gross weight, shall be accompanied by a permission in

writing given under the provisions of regulation 55 of these Regulations.

3.—(1) Subject to sub-regulation (3) of this regulation, the relevant Authority,

shall on receipt of a proper application and fee, if any, register the particulars of

the vehicle and issue a Vehicle Licence and if the vehicle was not previously

registered in Nigeria, or if the vehicle was previously owned by an exempted

body within the meaning of regulation 196 (2) of these Regulations, assign to it

a number plate within the Local Government Code.

(2) On registering a motor vehicle or trailer, the appropriate authority shall

assign an identification mark which shall be registered in respect of the vehicle.

(3) All auctioned vehicles may be assigned number plates provided the

application is accompanied by evidence authorizing such auction and relevant

payment receipt.

4.—(1) Any vehicle whose category is to be changed may be assigned

identification number provided it was previously registered.

(2) Where vehicle whose category is to be changed was registered in any

state other than the one in which the change of category is being sought, the

B 1531

change of category form must be accompanied by a certificate of clearance

from the police.

(3) If any person applies for a special identification number or mark in

respect of a vehicle used by an exempted body, the Authority may, with the

approval of the Principal Licensing Officer and on payment to the Authority of

the prescribed fee, assign to the vehicle the special identification number or

mark for which the application has been made as in Form MVA 3 of Schedule 1

to these Regulations.

5.—(1) Any person who wishes to register his vehicle in a code that is not

in the series of codes being issued at the time, but is in the control of the Central

Motor Registry, shall apply to the Authority for “Out of Series Registration” in

the form prescribed under Figure 9 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations.

(2) The Authority shall approve as it deems fit and the vehicle shall be so

registered on the payment of the prescribed fee.

(3) Any person who wishes to register a vehicle with a special or fancy number

shall apply to the Authority giving details of the special or fancy number ; provided

the special or fancy number shall not exceed eight digits made up of alphabets,

numerals or combination of both and the authority shall approve as it deems fit and

the vehicle shall be so registered on the payment of the prescribed fee.

(4) An application for out of series, fancy and special identification number

plates shall be as prescribed in Form MVA2 specified in Schedule 1 to these

6. Any person who wishes to transfer the out of series or fancy number

plates of any vehicle to another shall obtain a police clearance and attach same to

his application to the Authority who may approve as deemed fit upon payment of

the prescribed fee provided that the Authority shall be that of the State of last

registration.

7.—(1) Any person who wishes to re-register a vehicle shall apply, as

specified in Form MVA3 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations, to the Authority

stating reasons for the re-registration.

(2) The application to re-register a vehicle under sub-regulation (1) of this

regulation shall be accompanied with the original purchase documents and where

the vehicle was originally registered in a State other than the one in which the re-

registration is sought, the application shall be accompanied with a police clearance

and clearance from the Authority of the last registration.

(3) In addition to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, no

vehicle shall be registered except such vehicle has been examined and certified

suitable by the Vehicle Inspection Officer.

(4) The Commission or the Authority may, by Notice in the Federal or

State Gazette, prohibit the registration of any vehicle or any category of vehicles

which may be considered to be unsuitable for registration.

Out of series

special

number

Transfer of

or fancy

plates.

of vehicle.

B 1532

Categories of

(5) The Authority may refuse an application for registration of a vehicle if

it is not satisfied that the applicant has attained the age of eighteen years or

where there is a valid court order to that effect.

8.—(1) A vehicle may be registered in any one of the following categories—

(a) motorcycles ;

(b) motorcycles with three wheels or side cars ;

(c) private motor vehicle ;

(d) trailer ;

(e) taxi or hackney carriage authorised to carry not more than seven persons

including the driver ;

( f ) private car hire driven by the hirer or the owner’s driver ;

(g) commercial vehicle authorised to carry goods and persons who are

servants of the owner whilst in the employment of the owner ;

(h) stage carriage authorised to carry not more than fifteen persons including

the driver ;

(i) stage carriage authorised to carry more than fifteen persons including the

driver but subject to the provisions of regulation 95 (2) of these Regulations ;

(j) omnibus ;

(k) private omnibus used for the free conveyance of  employees ;

(l) agricultural vehicle ;

(m)  tractor ;

(n) vehicle exclusively designed for use as plant or machinery for

construction ; and

(o) fire engines or trailer pump.

(2) A vehicle may be registered in categories (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of

regulation (1) of this regulation if—

(a) the vehicle is operated primarily for hire or reward ;

(b) a certificate of road-worthiness issued by the Vehicle Inspection Officer

under regulation 142 of these Regulations is produced at the time of the

application to licence the vehicle ;

(c) the vehicle conforms with the provisions of regulation 116 of these

Regulations ; or

(d) the condition of the vehicle is, in the opinion of the appropriate authority,

safe and suitable for the conveyance of passengers or goods, and conforms

with the provisions of Parts VII and X of these Regulations.

B 1533

(3)   A vehicle may be registered as a trailer under this Part of these

Regulations if—

(a) it is a vehicle designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle ;

(b) a certificate of road-worthiness issued under regulation 142 of these

Regulations is produced at the time of application for registration ; and

(c) the trailer conforms with the provisions of regulation 140 of these

Regulations.

(4) A vehicle may be registered as agriculture machine if—

(a) the vehicle is intended to be used on any public road in passing from

land in private occupation to other land in such occupation ;

(b) it is registered in the name of a person engaged in agriculture, timber

trade or mining ; or

(c) it is not used on a public road for hauling any objects except for

agricultural land.

(5) A vehicle may be registered as tractor under this part of these Regulations

if the vehicle is used on a public road solely for the purpose of haulage, and

should not have super imposed upon it, any load except as may be necessary for

its propulsion or equipment.

9.—(1) Before a vehicle is registered, the appropriate authority may, if

facilities for weighing the vehicle are available, require the net weight of the

vehicle to be ascertained and shall certify the weight of the vehicle and make any

necessary correction in the statement of weight declared by the owner or where

the facilities for weighing are not available may require the owner of the vehicle

to produce a certificate of the weight thereof issued by the manufacturer or a

competent authority.

(2) The fee as may be determined and published by the Joint Tax Board

from time to time, shall be payable by the owner in respect of any ascertainment

of weight required to be effected under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation ;

(3) The appropriate authority may, at any reasonable time, require a vehicle

to be re-weighed free of charge.

(4) The owner of a vehicle shall cause the vehicle to be driven or brought

to an appropriate place which the appropriate authority may direct for the purpose

of weighing.

10.—(1) A registration book as specified in Form MVA 4 of Schedule 1 of

these Regulations shall be issued by the appropriate Authority to the owner of a

vehicle upon the payment of the prescribed registration fee and shall constitute

the permanent record of the vehicle.

(2) The registration book shall be required to be in the vehicle and liable to

be produced on demand by any appropriate authority.

Change of vehicle ownership.

(3) Any driver who fails to comply with the provisions of sub-regulation

(2) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a

fine not exceeding N1,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term of six months or to

both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) The provisions of sub-regulation (3) of this regulation shall not apply

to a person who has :

(a) lost the registration book and applied for a replacement ; or

(b) deposited the registration book with the appropriate authority.

(5) Where the owner of a vehicle shows to the satisfaction of the appropriate

Authority that—

(a) he is unable to obtain the registration book from a previous owner of

the vehicle ;

(b) the registration book has been lost, stolen or defaced ;

(c) a replacement of the registration book was not issued by the authority

to the owner upon payment by him of the prescribed fee ; or

(d) he has a certificate in lieu of custom papers or any other good cause

that his dealer has not given him any letter of custom clearance ;

the appropriate Authority may register the vehicle.

(6) The owner of the vehicle shall be required to inform the Authority

within a period of 4 weeks of any change of his address as shown in the registration

book.

11. Subject to the provisions of regulation 8 of these Regulations, where

there is a change in the category of any vehicle which affects the particulars

entered in its registration book, the owner of such vehicle shall immediately

inform the nearest Authority of the change as in Form MVA3 specified in Schedule

1 to these Regulations and the appropriate Authority shall thereupon, without

payment of any fee, amend the registration book provided that the change or

amendment is genuine.

12.—(1) Where the ownership of a vehicle is changed, the former owner

or the new owner of the vehicle shall give a notice of the change to the appropriate

Authority as in Form MVA 5 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations and the new

owner shall pay to the Authority the fee as may be prescribed by the Joint Tax

Board.

(2) The former owner of the vehicle referred to in sub-regulation (1) of

this regulation shall present the registration book to the Authority who shall

record details of the change of ownership and hand over the registration book to

the new owner.

(3) The notice referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be

given by the former owner or the new owner not later than 30 days after the

B 1535

date of the actual change of ownership and where the notice relates to a vehicle

which was imported into Nigeria free of import duty, the notice shall be

accompanied by a certificate of payment of import duty or exemption there

from issued to the new owner by the Nigeria Customs Service.

(4) The appropriate Authority shall effect every change of ownership in its

register .

13.—(1) Where the colour of a vehicle is to be changed, the owner shall

apply for approval from the Authority in Form MVA 6 of Schedule 1 to these

Regulations and unless such an application is approved, the owner of the vehicle

shall be restrained from changing the colour of the vehicle.

(2) A new vehicle licence shall be issued after payment of the fees prescribed

to reflect the new colour of the vehicle and the old vehicle licence shall be

withdrawn from the owner.

(3) Any alteration or change in the particulars of the vehicle shall be reflected

in the registration book by the appropriate Authority.

(4) Where the colour of a vehicle is changed without due approval, the

licence of such a vehicle shall become invalid and the owner of the vehicle has

committed an offence under these Regulations and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N3,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term of 6 months or both.

14. Where there is a replacement of the engine of a registered vehicle, the

owner shall notify the Authority as in Form MVA 7 in Schedule 1 and shall pay

the prescribed fee.

15. Where a vehicle is to be parked for a long time and an application has

been presented to the appropriate authority—

(a) the appropriate authority shall cancel the Vehicle Licence and issue to

the owner a Lay-off Certificate ;

(b) road user charges in respect of a vehicle for which a Vehicle Licence

has not been cancelled shall be payable by the owner until the Lay-off

Certificate is obtained ;

(c) where a vehicle is brought back for use on the road after a  temporary

lay-off without cancellation of the Vehicle Licence, the outstanding road user

charges in respect of the vehicle shall become payable ; and

(d) the appropriate authority shall issue a form for reporting vehicles for

lay-off.

16. Where a vehicle has been destroyed, broken up or permanently

immobilized or removed from the road or Nigeria-

(a) the owner of such a vehicle shall inform the appropriate authority in

writing ;

Withdrawal of registration.

(b) where the appropriate authority is satisfied that a registered vehicle has

been destroyed, broken up, permanently immobilized or removed from the

road or Nigeria, the appropriate authority shall cancel the entries in the register

in respect of the vehicle ; and

(c) notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (b) of this regulation,

where the appropriate authority is satisfied that a registered vehicle has been

destroyed or is permanently removed from Nigeria, the appropriate authority

shall cancel the vehicle licence after a written notice of not less than 90 days

has been given to the owner of the vehicle.

17.—(1) The appropriate authority shall—

(a) keep registers of licences, revocations, cancellations, withdrawals and

renewals of licences in the prescribed form ;

(b) on application by an authorised law enforcement officer, provide free

of charge a copy of the particulars in the register relating to the licence granted ;

(c) supply to any other authorised person applying for a copy of the entry

relating to any licence, a copy of those entries on payment of the prescribed

fees ; and

(d) at reasonable times upon request by any public officer acting in an

official capacity, make available copies of the entries in the register without

charge.

(2) The appropriate authority shall make available, copies of any records,

documents or particulars in respect of a vehicle whenever requested.

18. The Commission shall keep all copies of licences and other documents

furnished in pursuance of these Regulations at the Central Data Base and shall on

request by the appropriate authority supply such particulars in relation thereto.

19.  Any person who—

(a) makes an unauthorised entry or alteration in the registration book relating

to a vehicle ; or

(b) wilfully destroys or defaces any entry in the registration book,

commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or

imprisonment for a term of 6 months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

20. The appropriate authority may in cases of non - compliance with the

provisions of these Regulations or any other law—

(a) determine whether to withdraw a registration number for the time

being assigned to a motor vehicle or trailer ; and

(b) shall upon a withdrawal made under paragraph (a) of this regulation,

make the necessary and consequential amendments to the register and the

motor vehicle or trailer registration certificate.

B 1537

21. Any person who has been refused registration of a vehicle or whose

registration of vehicle has been withdrawn in accordance with these Regulations

may appeal to a Magistrate Court which may after hearing both parties give

such directions as it may deem fit under the circumstances.

PART  III—LICENCES   FOR  VEHICLES

22. Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, the Authority may issue

a vehicle licence for a period of twelve or six months as in Form MVA 8 of

Schedule 1 to these Regulations upon the payment of the fees as may be prescribed

by the Joint Tax Board and subject to the production of a registration book,

current certificate of insurance and certificate of road worthiness.

23.—(1) The Commission may by notice published in the Federal Gazette

or by direct instruction prohibit the registration of or licensing of a class or type

of vehicle considered to be unsuitable for any particular mode of usage and the

Authority shall accordingly not issue a licence, in respect of such class of vehicles.

(2) The Authority shall not issue a licence for any vehicle—

(a) the condition of which, in its opinion, is such as to render its use on the

public road a contravention of these Regulations ; or

(b) so constructed or in such condition, mechanically or otherwise, as in

its opinion likely to be dangerous to other road users or likely to cause damage

to the public road or bridges.

(3) No vehicle shall be licenced for a gross weight other than that registered

in respect of such vehicle in accordance with these Regulations.

(4) For the purpose of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, the appropriate

authority may, at any time, require any vehicle to be produced by such person

and at such time and place for inspection as may be appointed.

24. A person to whom a licence has been refused in accordance with this

Part of these Regulations may appeal to a Magistrate Court in the state within

which the licence is issued.

25.—(1) Where any person to whom a vehicle licence has been issued in

accordance with regulation 22 of these Regulations satisfies the Authority in the

State within which the original licence was issued that the vehicle in respect of

which the licence has been issued shall not be used in Nigeria during the unexpired

duration of the licence, the Authority may refund to that person a portion of the

fee paid for the licence and that portion shall be equivalent to one-twelfth of the

annual licence fee payable multiplied by the unexpired duration.

(2) Before a refund is made under this regulation, the licence and the

counterfoil thereof shall be surrendered to the relevant Authority which shall

thereafter—

(a) cause the licence to be cancelled ;

Appeal.

Display of  vehicle licence.

(b) cause the cancellation to be entered in the registration book of the

vehicle ; and

(c) inform the Central Data Base of the cancellation.

(3) When a refund is made under this regulation, the vehicle in respect of

which the licence was issued shall for the purpose of these Regulations be

deemed to be unlicenced during the period in respect of which the refund has

been made.

26.—(1) The owner, driver or person in charge or control of a vehicle

shall at all times when the vehicle is being used on any public road keep the

current licence of the vehicle displayed in the manner hereinafter provided, and

shall, on demand, permit any appropriate authority to examine the licence.

(2) Licences, other than trade licences, shall be displayed in a weather-

proof holder with a transparent cover and carried on the vehicle and in the case

of— Replacement of defaced or lost licence.

(a) motorcycles or trailers, in a conspicuous position on the near side of

the vehicle not more than 76.20 centimetres from the front of the motorcycle

or trailer ;

(b) motorcycles with side car, on the near side of the handle bar of the

cycle or the near side of the side car ;

(c) in the case of a vehicle fitted with a front glass windscreen extending

across the vehicle, to the near lower corner of the glass of such windscreen

or in such other manner so as to be clearly visible from the front  at all times

by daylight whether such vehicle is moving or stationary; and in the event of

the licence being carried actually upon a glass portion of the vehicle and

otherwise complying with these Regulations the obligation that the licence

shall be carried in a weather-proof holder with a transparent cover shall not

apply ; and

(d) all other vehicles, on the near side of the vehicle facing the near side of

the road and not less than one metre nor more than two metres from the

ground level and placed as near to the front seat as is practicable.

(3) Except when placed on or adjacent to the windscreen, the licence shall

be placed and carried, so as to be clearly visible at all times by daylight to a

person standing at the near side of the vehicle, whether such vehicle is moving

or stationary.

(4) In the case of vehicle issued with a trade licence, such licence shall be

displayed on the front plate bearing the trade number plates issued in respect of

such licence.

27.—(1)    Subject to sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, the appropriate

Authority shall issue a new licence to the holder of a current licence under this

Part of these Regulations, if the holder of the licence satisfies the relevant Authority

that the—

B 1539

(a) licence has been defaced or mutilated ;

(b) figures and particulars thereof have become illegible ; or

(c) licence has been lost or stolen,

and the new licence shall have the same effect as the original licence.

(2) Before issuing a licence under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the

appropriate Authority shall demand the production of the holder’s registration

book as proof of issue of the original licence.

(3) In the case of a loss or stolen licence, the owner shall be required to

produce the Police Extract or report and a duly sworn affidavit stating clearly

the particulars and facts of loss before a new licence may be issued after the

payment of the prescribed fee.

28.—(1) When the ownership of a vehicle is transferred in accordance

with regulation 12 of these Regulations—

(a) the existing licence shall be valid until the expiry date on it where the

new owner does not intend to use the vehicle for any purpose other than that

for which it is classified and registered ; and

(b) in all other cases, a refund may be made to the former owner of the

vehicle for the unexpired duration of the licence and the vehicle shall be re-

licenced upon payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) Where the new owner fails to comply with this regulation, the existing

licences shall cease to be valid.

29.—(1) When a registration book has been amended in accordance with

regulation 10, the existing licence shall remain valid until the expiry date, unless

the registration category or character of the vehicle has been so changed as to

render payable a licence fee at a higher or lower rate than that paid on the

issuance of the existing licence.

(2) Where a higher or lower licence fee becomes payable, a refund may be

made to the former owner of the vehicle for the unexpired duration of the licence

and the vehicle shall be re-licenced upon payment of the prescribed fee.

PART  IV—SPECIAL  TRADE  LICENCE

30.—(1) A special trade licence specified in Form MVA 10 of Schedule 1

to these Regulations, may be issued by the Authority to a dealer on payment of

the prescribed fee and the licence shall be so stamped indicating the type of

trade licence.

(2) Before a special trade licence can be issued, the applicant must have

furnished the Authority with his data as prescribed in Form MVA 10 of Schedule

1 to these Regulations.

(3) A dealer may obtain any number of trade licences provided that no

trade licence shall be issued for use in respect of any vehicle except— Change of licence upon change of ownership.

Licence or change of vehicle classification.

Special trade licence.

B 1540

Trade identification number or mark.

Appeals.

(a) when a vehicle having been off-loaded from a ship, lighter, train or

other road vehicle is being driven to the dealer’s place of business ;

(b) when a vehicle is being tested after having been received, assembled or

repaired at the dealer’s place of business ;

(c) when a vehicle is being tested by or on behalf of an intending purchaser

or of the owner in the case of vehicle undergoing repairs ;

(d) when a new vehicle or one under repairs is being transferred by a

dealer in the normal course of business ; or

(e) when a new vehicle or one which has been repaired is in process of

delivery to the purchaser.

31. A trade licence shall be issued with a trade number plate as shown in

figure 10 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations consisting of the National flag

symbol, name of authorised dealer, dealer’s code, State code, dealer’s number

(alpha-numeric), individual vehicle code (alpha-numeric) and words “Federal

Republic of Nigeria” and the particulars of each trade licence shall be entered in

a special register kept for that purpose by the Authority provided that trade

identification number plates shall only be issued to motor vehicle dealers and

mechanic workshop operators and the ones issued to mechanic workshop

operators shall only be used on vehicles during road tests.

32. A person to whom a trade licence has been refused may appeal to any

Magistrate Court.

(1) A trade licence shall not—

(a) authorise—

(i) the carrying of fee-paying passengers or goods for reward ; or

(ii) the carrying of any person not engaged in testing the vehicle or

inspecting the vehicle with a view to purchasing same ; or

(b) be used between the hours of 6 p.m. and 6 a.m.

(2) Any person using a trade licence, except for the purpose authorised by

these Regulations, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of

N2,000 or to imprisonment for a term of 1 year or to both such fine and

imprisonment.

(3) Any person who operates as a motor vehicle dealer without obtaining

the appropriate trade licence commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of 1 year imprisonment  or to both.

(4) A motor vehicle dealer shall be required to keep a record of journeys

made by vehicles operating under a trade licence and the record shall be open for

inspection by the appropriate Authority.

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, a

trade licence issued in any State shall be valid in any other State until the expiry

date indicated on such licence.

B 1541

(6) A trade licence in this regulation includes—

(a) licences for motor vehicle and motorcycle dealers ;

(b) licences for spare parts dealers to engage in the sales and distribution

of motor vehicle and motorcycle spare parts ;

(c) licences for mechanic workshops to engage in the business of motor

vehicle repairs and servicing.

(7) The procedure for obtaining a trade licence and registration—

(a) as a spare parts dealer is as specified in Form MVA 10A of Schedule 1

to these Regulations ;

(b) as a motor mechanic is as specified in Form MVA 10B of Schedule 1 to

these Regulations ; and

(c) as a vehicle motorcycle dealer is as specified in Form MVA10C of

Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

(8) For the purpose of this Part of these Regulations, “a dealer” includes a

motor vehicle, motorcycle and motor spare parts dealer.

PART  V—ESTABLISHMENT AND  REGULATION   OF  DRIVING  SCHOOLS

33.—(1) The Commission shall—

(a) establish a model driving school in each State of the Federation and

Federal Capital Territory ;

(b) regulate the establishment and registration of private and Government

owned driving schools in Nigeria ; and

(c) set guidelines for the establishment of such driving schools.

(2) The registration of the driving schools shall be as specified in Form

MVA 10D of Schedule 1 to these Regulations and no driving school shall be

registered unless the prescribed fee is paid to the Authority.

(3) The Commission shall, from time to time, inspect all registered driving

schools to ensure that the operators conform to standards specified by the

Commission.

(4) The Commission shall issue a permit to all registered driving schools in

accordance with sub-regulation (1) of this regulation.

(5) Every private driving school shall be operated by a registered instructor

for the purpose of operating as a driving school.

34.—(1) A permit showing registration shall be issued to an instructor

following an application made personally in the following circumstances—

(a) after a successful completion of a course of instructor’s training

organized by the Commission ;

Establishment and registration of driving schools.

Instructor’s permit.

B 1542

Training

instructors.

(b) the proposed instructor shall have shown ownership of at least two

vehicles and an office to be used for the purpose of the driving school ; and

(c) the said vehicles and office shall have been inspected by an inspecting

officer and a satisfactory report made to the Commission.

(2) The period from the application to the issuance of the permit shall not

exceed 4 weeks.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits

an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 6 months

imprisonment or to both.

(4) In addition to the penalty in sub-regulation (3) of this regulation, the

Commission shall have power to close down the driving school until the driving

school complies fully with the provisions of these Regulations.

35.—(1) A person shall not act as an instructor in accordance with these

Regulations unless he is—

(a) registered and licenced in accordance with the provisions of these

Regulations ;

(b) of good character ; and

(c) mentally and physically fit to act as an instructor.

(2) A person referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall only

be registered or licenced in respect of a class of motor vehicle which he or she

is licenced to drive.

(3) An instructor shall not give driving lessons to any person in respect of

a class of vehicle for which he has not been licenced or approved and any

person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and shall be liable

on conviction to a term of imprisonment for 6 months or a fine of N2,000:00 or

to both.

Vehicle identification number plates.

Display of number plates.

PART  VI—VEHICLE  IDENTIFICATION  NUMBERS

36. All private and commercial vehicles shall as from the commencement

of these Regulations have on them Vehicle Identification Number Plates which

shall—

(a) be carried by the motor vehicle on two plates which shall conform to

the requirements of these Regulations ; and

(b) the number plate shall be fixed—

(i) in such a manner that each is not easily detachable ; and

(ii) in an upright position or within 15 degrees of such position ;

37.—(1) The Identification Number Plates carried by a motor vehicle or

articulated vehicle shall be displayed on two plates for a motor vehicle and three

plates for an articulated vehicle and shall conform as to lettering, numbering and

B 1543

otherwise with the provisions set out in figures 1-11 of Schedule 5 to these

(2) The number plates shall in respect of—

(a) a motor vehicle be fixed, one on the front of the vehicle and the other

at the centre or on the off-side of the rear of the vehicle or as may be provided

by the manufacturer :

(b) a trailer, be fixed one on the front of the vehicle and two at the rear of

the trailer in an upright position ;

(c) a motorcycle, one plate shall be fixed in front and one at the rear with

the plate having white background but blue lettering for private, green lettering

for the Federal, State or Local Government, black lettering for the Armed

Forces, Para-military Services and red lettering for commercial, so that every

letter or figure on the plate is up-right and easily distinguishable in the case of

the front plate from behind.

(3) In the case of the recovery of a semi-trailer, the operator of the prime-

mover shall be required to ensure that the entire articulated vehicle carries the

same identification number in respect of the prime mover and the semi-trailer.

(4) Each Identification Number Plate must be reflective and so made that

any letter, numeral or other identifying mark displayed on it are legible at day

time and at night in clear weather and must be visible and recognizable at a

distance of not less than 60 metres by the driver of the immediate following

vehicle and in the case of motorcycle at a distance of 30 metres.

38.—(1) A vehicle shall carry a Vehicle Tag as specified in Form MVA 25

of Schedule 5 to these Regulations which shall be issued along with the Vehicle

Number Plate and shall carry the same number with the plate and be affixed to

the rear windscreen.

(2) Except as otherwise provided under these Regulations—

(a) a number plates shall be transferred from one vehicle or trailer to

another ;

(b) Number Plates shall be attached to a person and not to a vehicle ;

(c) Number Plates shall be returned to the Motor Licencing Authority on

sale of a car and the new owner shall obtain new set of number plates ; and

(d) proof of Ownership Certificate is mandatory for issuance of new

number plates.

(3) A person convicted of an offence under sub-regulation (1) of this

regulation is liable to a fine of N3,000 or imprisonment for a term of 6 months or

tag.

B 1544

Vehicle identification number plate figures.

39.—(1) The form of Identification Number Plates referred to in sub-

regulation (1) of this regulation shall be rectangular with dimensions of 30.80cm

(12.125) by 15.56cm (6.125) for vehicles and 22.9cm (9") by 10.2cm (4")

using 1 inch (2.54cm) for motorcycles both with white background as shown

in figures 1 and 2 in Schedule 5 of these Regulations.

(2) Private Number Plates shall—

(a) have the name of the State in black, the licensing office code number,

the vehicle registration number and Local Government code number in blue ;

(b) for commercial vehicles, have the name of the State in black, the

licensing office code number, the vehicle registration number and Local

Government code number in red ;

(c) for Federal and State Government vehicles, have the name of the Ministry

or Parastatal and the code number in green ;

(d) for Local Government and Area Councils, have the name of the State in

black, the Local Government Area Council identification code, the vehicle

registration number and the name of the Local Government code in green ;

(e) for the Military and Para-Military vehicles, have the name and the code

of the Armed Forces and Para-Military, the vehicle group code, issuing office

code in black.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (10) of this regulation,

the number plate of vehicles referred to in—

(a) regulation (a) and (b) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have

the symbol of the National flag on the top left corner and the Federal Republic

of Nigeria in black as specified in figure 3 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ;

(b) regulation (c) and (d) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have

the National Coat of Arm in the top left corner and the Federal Republic of

Nigeria in black as specified in figure 5 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ;

(c) regulation (e) of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall have the

National Coat of Arm in the top left corner in black and the Federal Republic

of Nigeria also in black as specified in figure 4 of Schedule 5 to these

(4) All vehicle number plates shall have—

(a) a Local Government Code for private and commercial vehicles as set

out in figure 5 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ;

(b) Federal, State or Local Government Codes for government vehicles as

set out in figure 7 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ;

(c) codes of military and all other government agencies as set out in figure

7 of Schedule 5 to these Regulations ;

B 1545

(d) codes of Para-military vehicles as set out in figure 8 of Schedule 5 to

these Regulations ;

(e) codes for diplomatic vehicles as set out in figure 11 of Schedule 5 to

( f ) Local Government Area codes shall come first in respect of Private,

Commercial and Local Government Area vehicles.

(5) The Commission shall determine, from time to time, the appropriate

number codes for all categories of vehicles ;

(6) In the case of a loss or damage to a vehicle number plate or a vehicle

identification tag, the owner of the vehicle or the driver shall—

(a) report the particulars of loss immediately to the nearest Police Station

or a Licensing Officer ;

(b) prove ownership of the lost plate by swearing to an affidavit stating the

loss ; and

(c) pay the prescribed fee to the appropriate authority for a replacement of

the lost number plate or identification tag.

(7) The owner of the vehicle or the driver may, where the necessary

particulars of loss have been reported, construct a temporary number plate in

the form of wood which shall conform to colouring, lettering codes, etc. as

outlined in the provisions of this regulation.

(8) A temporary number plate shall be sufficient as the number plate until a new

one is issued by the Authority within 14 days of payment of the replacement fee.

(9) All vehicles, private and commercial, shall as from the commencement

of these Regulations, have on them the Vehicle Identification Number Plates

referred to in this regulation and it shall be an offence for any vehicle not to have

the said Identification Number Plates.

(10) The Commission shall be responsible for the production of Vehicle

Identification Number Plates for the Federation.

(11) It shall be an offence for an officer of the Authority to issue or allocate

Vehicle Identification Number Plates before the production of the said number

plates or mark by the Commission.

40. The fees for road charges shall be as determined and published by the

Joint Tax Board (JTB), as specified under Schedule 14 to these Regulations,

from time to time.

41.—(1) There shall be Proof of Ownership Certificate for all registered

vehicles the format of which shall be as in Form MVA 9 of Schedule 1 to these

Regulations or as may be determined by the Commission from time to time as

specified in Schedule 14 to these Regulations.

(2) A person who commits an offence under this Part shall where no

penalty is provided be liable on conviction to a fine of N500:00 for every day the

offence is committed.

Classes of licence.

PART  VII—LEARNER’S  PERMIT  AND  DRIVER’S  LICENCE

42.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, an applicant for a

Learner’s Permit shall pay the prescribed fees and shall be granted a Learner’s

Permit which shall entitle him to drive a motor vehicle of the group or type

stated in the permit for a period not exceeding three months from the date of

issuance of the Learner’s Permit.

(2) An application for a Learner’s Permit shall be in the prescribed form

MVA 15 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

(3) An application for a Learner’s Permit shall be accompanied by two

passport photographs of the applicant not larger than 25mm by 30mm.

(4) Where the holder of a Learner’s Permit—

(a) fails to complete a driving test as organized by a licenced instructor ; or

(b) takes a test and fails.

he shall be entitled to apply for another Learner’s Permit but not before the

expiration of one calendar month from the date of the previous test.

(5) The holder of a Learner’s Permit shall not carry any passenger except

a licenced driver or certified instructor licenced to drive the category of vehicle

being driven.

(6) The holder of a Learner’s Permit shall not drive without a licenced

driver or instructor sitting by his side at the passenger’s seat.

43. Any person who while driving a motor vehicle uses a forged permit,

to a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both.

44.—(1) Driver’s licence or Learner’s Permit to drive motor vehicles shall

be in one or more of the following classes—

(a) Class A

(b) Class B

—

motorcycle ; a motor vehicle of less than   three   tonnes

gross   weight   other   than   motorcycle

commercial, taxi, stage carriage or omnibus ;

(c) Class C

a motor vehicle of less than three tonnes gross

weight, other than motorcycles ;

(d) Class D

a motor vehicle, other than motorcycle, taxi,

stage carriage or omnibus but excluding an

articulated vehicle or vehicle drawing a trailer ;

(e) Class E

a motor vehicle other than motorcycle or

articulated vehicle ;

(f) Class F— agricultural machines and tractors ;

B 1547

(g) Class G

articulated vehicles ;

(h) Class H

earth-moving vehicles ; and

(i) Class J

special, for physically handicapped persons ;

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation,

a person may be authorised to have a combination of two or more of the Classes.

45.—(1) An applicant for a fresh driver’s licence shall furnish evidence of

training at an approved driving school and a learner’s permit and shall be

accompanied with a certificate of visual acuity test and general medical fitness

test as prescribed in regulation 52 (1) of these Regulations.

(2) A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a driver’s

licence shall, subject to the provision of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation,

lodge with the Authority the appropriate application form as in Form MVA11

specified in Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

(3) A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a Private

Class driver’s licence shall—

(a) attend and pass driver’s training at any Driving School certified by the

Commission ;

(b) fill the application form for driver’s licence electronically or at any of the

Commission’s Driver’s Licence Centers or States Board of Internal Revenue ;

(c)  obtain medical certificate of fitness as provided in regulation 57(3) of

these Regulations from any Government Hospital ;

(d)   attend and pass a driving test conducted by the Vehicle Inspection

Officer or by other appropriate authority ;

(e)  pay the prescribed fee at any designated bank and presents the bank

teller at Driver’s Licence Center of the Commission ; and

(f ) present himself for Biometric Capturing at the Driver’s Licence Center

of the Commission and receives temporary driver’s Licence immediately after

physical capture.

(4)   A person not below the age of 26 years who desires to obtain a

commercial or professional driver’s licence shall—

(a)  posses a private driver’s licence ;

(b)  presents evidence of membership of professional association such as

National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and National Association

of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), or letter of employment by a registered

transport company ;

(c)   obtain medical certificate of fitness as provided in regulation 57(3)

from any Government Hospital ;

Renewal of

driver’s

licence.

(5)  The temporary Private Class and commercial or professional driver’s

licence shall be valid for 60 days and on expiration of the temporary driver’s

licence the applicant shall collect the driver’s licence at State Board of Internal

Revenue.

(6)   A person not below the age of 18 years who desires to obtain a

Diplomatic driver’s licence (Private Class) shall—

(a)  be in possession of a driver’s licence from country of origin ;

(b)  present letter of introduction from Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the

Driver’s Licence Centre’s of the Commission ;

(c)   attend and pass a driving test conducted by the Vehicle Inspection

Officer or by any other appropriate authority ; and

(d) present himself for Biometric Capturing at the Driver’s Licence Center

(7)  The validity period for diplomatic driver’s licence is three years and

may be renewed thereafter.

(8)  The temporary driver’s licence is valid for 60 days and on expiration

of the temporary driver’s licence the applicant shall collect the driver’s licence

from the Commission through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

(9)  An applicant for renewal of diplomatic driver’s must fulfill all the

requirements and procedures stated in sub-regulation (6) of this regulation

provided that applicant between the ages of 18 and 25 years shall be tested

annually before renewal of diplomatic driver’s licence.

46.—(1) The holder of a valid licence may apply for and obtain a renewal

of the licence referred to in sub-regulation (2) of regulation 45 of these Regulations

at any time within a period of one calendar month before the expiry date of the

(2) An application for the renewal of licence shall be in Form MVA 12 of

Schedule 1 to these Regulations :

(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, the

renewal of a driver’s licence shall take effect from the date of the receipt by the

Authority or a duly completed application form.

(4) All applicants for renewal of driver’s licence shall undergo a driving

test in accordance with regulation 56 of these Regulations if six months have

elapsed since the person last held a valid driver’s licence

B 1549

(5) It shall be an offence under these Regulations for an unlicenced person

and a person below 18 years to drive a vehicle or ride a motorcycle on any

public road.

(6) No person shall, wilfully or negligently issue, authorise the issue of or

endorse any Learner’s Permit or Driver’s licence contrary to the provisions of

these Regulations.

(7) All holders of Commercial, Graduated and Senior drivers’ licences

shall go through an annual recertification of their licences.

(8) It is mandatory for commercial drivers to go through the driving

simulators and medical tests at designated centers as part of the recertification.

47.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, a person shall be

disqualified from obtaining or holding a learner’s permit or driver’s licence—

(a) if he in the case of any motor vehicle, is under the age of 18 years ;

(b) where a licence to drive or permit held by him has been suspended by

a competent court or authority, for such period as he or she may not hold or

apply for a licence or permit ;

(c) during any period in respect of which his licence has been revoked by

a competent court, while an order of revocation remains in force ;

(d) if he is suffering from any of the following diseases or disabilities—

(i) uncontrolled epilepsy ;

(ii) sudden attacks of disabling giddiness or fainting due to hypertension

or any other cause ;

(iii) any form of mental illness to such an extent that it is necessary that

he should be detained, supervised, controlled and treated as a patient ;

(iv) any condition causing muscular inco-ordination ;

(v) uncontrolled diabetes mellitus ;

(vi) defective vision ascertained by a medical test ; or

(vii) any other disease or physical defect which is likely to render him

incapable of effectively driving and controlling a vehicle of the class to

which such licence relates without endangering the safety of other road

users ; and

(e) where he is addicted to the use of any drug having a narcotic effect or

the excessive use of intoxicating liquor.

(2) A person shall not, when applying for a driver’s licence or Learner’s

Permit, wilfully fail to disclose any disqualification to which he or she is subject

in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation.

(3) Any person who is the holder of a licence or permit in terms of these

Regulations, and becomes aware that he has become disqualified from holding

such licence or permit, shall forthwith cease to drive any vehicle.

Change of class or category of driving licence.

Certification of vision acuity and general medical fitness.

48.—(1) A learner’s permit or driver’s licence issued contrary to the

provisions of these Regulations shall be invalid and void ; and

(2) Any person or authority who issues a driver’s licence or Learner’s

Permit without the approval of the appropriate authority commits an offence

and shall be liable on .conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or to a term of 1 year

49. An applicant for the issue or re-issue of a driver’s licence shall present

himself physically for photographic capture in addition to recent passport

photograph (which shall be printed from the same negative) of the head, full

face, and shoulders of the applicant approximately but not longer than 15 mm by

30 mm and where a driving test is required in pursuance of regulation 50 (1) of

these Regulations, the copy shall be certified as a true resemblance of the applicant

by the appropriate authority.

50.—(1) The Authority shall, before issuing a licence, require the applicant

to pass a driving test to show that he is capable of fully controlling a motor

vehicle of the type and group for which he has applied.

(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply

to an applicant for renewal except as provided in regulation 46 (4) of these

51.—(1) Where the holder of a current driver’s licence wishes to change

to another class or group, he shall be tested on the proposed category or categories

of vehicles and shall attach the results of such test(s) as well as the previous

licence to his application to the Authority, the Authority may issue him a new

licence showing the new class or group on the payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) The new driver’s licence shall be endorsed with the number and date

of issue of the original licence and with any conviction or order which relates to

any offence within the immediately preceding two years which was endorsed

on the original licence.

(3) On the issuance of a new driver’s licence, the old licence shall be

cancelled by the Authority and forwarded to the Central Data Base with the

appropriate application form.

(4) Where a driving test is required by the Authority, no licence shall be

issued unless the application is accompanied by a certificate stating the group or

groups of licence issued under regulation 60 of these Regulations.

52.—(1) The Authority shall not issue a driver’s licence unless the applicant

furnishes certificates of vision acuity test and general fitness from any government

hospital in addition to first aid skill.

(2) The vision acuity and general fitness examination shall be as prescribed

in Form MVA 13 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

(3) A person who is convicted of an offence under this Part of these

Regulations shall have his licence suspended until the defect is corrected.

B 1551

53.—(1) A driver’s licence shall be as specified in Form MVA 16 of Schedule

1 to these Regulations and shall be renewable after three years from the date of

issue or as may be prescribed from time to time by the Commission.

(2) The applicant shall not be entitled to receive a driver’s licence except

on the payment of the fee prescribed by the Joint Tax Board ; and

(3) The Authority shall affix its official stamp across the passport photograph

of the applicant on the driver’s licence to the top right hand corner and when

placing the official stamp, part of the stamp shall be on the photograph and part

on the licence.

(4) The applicant for a driver’s licence shall append his signature and thumbprint

in the space provided in the driver’s licence application Form MVA 11 and Form

MVA 12 specified in Schedule 1 to these Regulations as may be applicable.

54.—(1) The Commission shall be responsible for the production of Driver’s

Licence for the Federation.

(2) A person shall not, wilfully or fraudulently issue, authorise the issue of,

or endorse any driver’s licence contrary to the provisions of these Regulations.

(3) A learner’s permit or driver’s licence issued contrary to the provisions

of these Regulations shall be invalid and void.

(4) A person driving any motor vehicle or trailer who uses a forged driver’s

licence or a driver’s licence belonging to another person commits an offence

and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N20,000:00 or to a term of 1 year

imprisonment or both.

55.—(1) A person shall not except under and in accordance with a valid

special permit granted by the appropriate authority, drive or use or cause or

permit to be driven or used, on a public road in Nigeria, a motor vehicle as

specified in these Regulations except where:

(a) the gross vehicle weight of the motor vehicle or trailer does not exceed

the weight specified in relation to a vehicle of the description as specified in

(b) the gross vehicle weight is distributed on axles in the manner as specified

in these Regulations.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph  (b) of sub-regulation (1)

of this regulation—

(a) no axle singly or at one of the tandem or tridem shall exceed the maximum

weight limit provided in Form MVA 29 of Schedule 15 to these Regulations.

(b) the axle load limit shall not exceed the lesser of the limits set in these

Regulations or the manufacturers’ recommended limits.

(3) A special permit issued by the appropriate authority shall be in the

prescribed form and shall specify conditions for granting that permit including

the—

Form of driver’s licence.

Production of driver’s licence.

Grant of special permit.

B 1552

Conduct of driving tests.

Certificate of competence for commercial drivers.

(a) presentation of the vehicle and load to be weighed ;

(b) provision of escorts ;

(c) use of warning lights and devices ;

(d) travel time ; or

(e) any other matter, which in the opinion of the appropriate authority is

necessary for the carriage of a load and the protection of road infrastructure

and the environment.

56.—(1) A driving test shall be conducted by the appropriate authority.

(2) The driving test shall be held at such a place and time which may be specified

by the appropriate authority to determine the competence of the applicant to—

(a) control the motor vehicle in the traffic ;

(b) bring motor vehicle to a standstill from normal speed ;

(c) turn corners, cross main roads and turn from side to main roads ;

(d) pass other vehicles on the roads ;

(e) drive a motor vehicle except a motorcycle, backwards along a straight

road and around corners ;

( f ) turn round in a road ;

(g) understand the indication of speeds and figures shown on the

speedometer of the motor vehicle ;

(h) demonstrate his knowledge of the rules of the road, the signals set out

in Schedules 6 and 7 to these Regulations, signs and traffic light signals

illustrated in Schedule 9 to these Regulations, first aid skill and the principal

offences set out under the Act and these Regulations ;

(i) read at a distance of twenty-three metres in daylight (with the aid of

glasses, if worn), a motor Vehicle Identification Number Plates ; and

(j) generally drive competently a motor vehicle or in the case of a person suffering

from disability, a motor vehicle of the particular class of which the application

relates, without danger to and with due consideration for other road users.

(3) An applicant who passes a driving test on a vehicle fitted with automatic

transmission or adapted vehicle shall have his driver’s licence so endorsed and

shall only be licenced to drive such a vehicle ;

(4) The conditions which apply to the testing of an applicant motor driver

shall also apply to an applicant motorcycle rider and the result of such a test

shall be recorded in Form MVA 14 of Schedule 1 to these Regulations.

(5) The driving test as prescribed under this regulation shall be applied by

all licenced driving schools.

57.—(1) All commercial driver’s licence holders shall undergo a minimum

of cumulative nine hours of competence training within a period of three years

and shall be issued a certificate of competence which shall form part of the

requirements for renewal of the licence.

B 1553

(2) The training and certification shall be as prescribed by the Commission.

(3) An applicant for any class of driver’s licence shall undergo vision

acuity and general medical fitness examinations including the following—

(a) Blood pressure assessment for hypertension ;

(b) Blood sugar for diabetes ;

(c) Visual acuity and colour blindness ;

(d) Chronic arthritis ;

(e) E.E.G screening for epilepsy ; and

( f ) Ear defect.

(4) The vision acuity and general medical fitness examinations shall be

carried out in any government hospital.

(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to the requirements

for obtaining commercial driver’s licence commits an offence and shall be liable

on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of imprisonment for six months

or to both.

58.—(1) An applicant for a convoy driver’s licence who must have acquired

a driver’s licence shall undergo the Commission’s organised specialised training

programme for convoy driving and be issued a certificate of competence to be

qualified for the class ‘B’ driver’s licence.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to the requirements for

obtaining a convoy driver’s licence commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of imprisonment for six months or to both.

59.—(1) An applicant who passes a driving test on a vehicle fitted with

automatic transmission or adapted vehicle shall have his driver’s licence so

endorsed and shall only be licenced to drive such a vehicle.

(2) The conditions which apply to the testing of an applicant motor driver

(3) The driving test as prescribed under this regulation shall be applied by

60. When a person has passed a driving test, he shall be issued with a

certificate stating the group of licence he is qualified to receive.

61.—(1) Whenever an applicant for a driver’s licence is—

(a) driving a vehicle for the purpose of being tested ; or

(b) the holder of a learner’s permit ; there shall be securely affixed at the front and back of the vehicle, plates displaying

the letter “L” which shall conform with the provisions set out in Schedule 1 of

Convoy driver’s licence. Application for driving licence.

Replacement of lost or stolen licence.

these Regulations and the plate shall have a white background and the letter “L”

painted in red colour.

(2) The learner’s sign shall be as prescribed in Form MVA 17 of Schedule

62.—(1) Subject to these Regulations, where the holder of a driver’s licence

issued under this Part of these Regulations satisfies the Authority that :

(a) the licence is illegible ; or

(b) the photograph on such licence has become defaced so as to impair the

identification of the holder thereof,

the Authority shall issue a replacement to the applicant upon the payment of the

prescribed fee.

(2) The Authority shall endorse on the replaced licence the particulars of

any conviction or order endorsed on the former licence which relate to any

offence committed by the owner of the licence within the preceding three years.

(3) The mutilated licence shall be cancelled and shall be forwarded with

the licence application and photograph to the Central Motor Registry which shall

cause it to be destroyed.

(4) The procedure for replacing a lost, damaged or defaced licence shall

be as follows—

(a) the holder shall—

(i) report to the nearest Police Station and obtain a police extract stating

particulars of the loss, damage or defacement,

(ii) swear to an affidavit stating the facts of the loss, damage or defacement ;

(iii) pay the prescribed fee.

(b) the Authority shall on the production of the documents specified in

regulation (4) (a) issue a new licence to the applicant.

63. Where a driver’s licence has been lost or stolen, the holder shall apply

to the Authority for replacement in the manner specified in regulation 56 of these

64.—(1) Where the holder of a driver’s licence issued under this Part of

these Regulations satisfies the Authority in the State in which the original licence

was issued that the licence has been lost or stolen, he may apply to that Authority

for a replacement of licence in the same manner as specified in sub-regulation

(1) of regulation 46 of these Regulations.

(2) The fee payable under this regulation shall be as prescribed and published

by the Joint Tax Board from time to time.

(3) The provisions of regulation 28 of these Regulations shall apply to any

such replacement of licence.

B 1555

65. Where a licenced driver is convicted of any offence by a court under the

Act or these Regulations, the court may, depending on the nature and gravity of the

offence, suspend or bar the driver from holding a driver’s licence and such conviction

shall be reported to the Central Motor Registry by the appropriate authority.

66.—(1) Without prejudice to the power of the court to suspend or bar a

person from holding a driver’s licence, the authority shall have the power to

suspend a driver’s licence where a person by administrative hearing—

(a) is convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or any  drug ;

(b) is convicted of participating in, or organizing an unauthorised speed

contest on a public highway ;

(c) receives 3 convictions for failure to maintain insurance ;

(d) receives 3 convictions for inconsiderate driving within 3 months ;

(e) receives 3 convictions for failure to properly secure or use child restraint

system in a vehicle ;

(f) is convicted of the offence of exceeding the prescribed speed limit

under these Regulations or any other law ;

(h) is convicted of driving with defective and uncorrected eyesight ; or

(i) in other cases—

(i) where a driver has accumulated more than 14 penalty points within

12 calendar months ; or

(ii) upon the approval by the Commission of a recommendation made

by a crash investigation officer recommending suspension.

(2) The suspension of a driver’s licence by the authority shall be for a

period not exceeding 6 months and such suspension shall be reported to the

Central Motor Registry.

(3) A person whose driver’s licence has been suspended under these

Regulations shall be issued with a notice of suspension as specified in Form

MVA 28A in Schedule 11 to these Regulations.

(4) Where a driver has accumulated 21 penalty points or 2 consecutive

suspensions, the authority shall issue to him a notice as specified in Form MVA

28B of schedule 11 to these Regulations withdrawing his driver’s licence for a

period of one year and the driver’s licence shall become invalid.

(5) Except in cases of first time offenders, a person who is convicted and

has his licence suspended shall be required to take driving lessons on the use of

the road which shall be organized by the authority upon payment of fees to be

prescribed by the Commission.

(6) The driving lessons shall be for daily periods as shall be determined by

the authority and shall be for duration of at least 8 weeks, at the completion of

which a re-issuance of the licence may be made if the offender has successfully

completed the test at the end of the lessons.

Report of convictions to the central motor registry.

Suspension of drivers licence.

B 1556

Change of driver’s name and address.

(7) In the absence of a reasonable excuse, an absence from any of the

daily classes prescribed under this regulation shall warrant a restart of the driving

lessons.

67.—(1) Any person driving a vehicle on any public road shall be in

possession of an original driver’s licence but where the person is in possession

of the photocopy of the original driver’s licence he shall within 24 hours produce

the original driver’s licence to the appropriate authority if demanded.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 61 (1) of

these Regulations commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine

of N10,000:00 or to a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both.

(3) Any person driving a vehicle must be in possession of at least the

photocopies of the vehicle particulars, and the originals shall be provided to the

appropriate authority within 24 hours if so demanded.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of regulation 67 (3) of

these Regulations commits an offence and is liable upon conviction to a fine of

N3,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

68. It shall be an offence for any person to drive a vehicle when his licence

to do so has been suspended, revoked, expired or cancelled in accordance with

69.—(1) The appropriate authority shall re-test a driver upon the payment

of a precribed driving test fee where—

(a) the driver has been involved in a crash and is adjudged by a Court of

competent jurisdiction to be at fault ; or

(b) The driver is convicted of any of the following traffic offences—

(i) driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs ; or

(ii) dangerous, careless and reckless driving ;

(c) a Court order that a driver should be re-tested ;

(d) the appropriate authority considers it necessary to re-test a driver ; and

(e) the driver is guilty of any other offence or conduct under the Act and

any other law that may lead to the suspension, revocation or cancellation of

the driver’s licence.

(2) A Court shall notify the appropriate authority in writing in respect of a

driver who is to be re-tested upon the order of Court.

(3) Any conviction or order endorsed on the original licence which relates

to any offence within the immediate two years shall be endorsed on the newly

issued licence.

70.—(1) A holder of a driver’s licence shall notify the appropriate authority

in writing within fourteen working days of any change of the holder’s name and

residential address.

B 1557

(2) Where the change is in respect of a name, the holder shall appear

personally before the appropriate authority.

(3) The notification to the appropriate authority shall be supported by the

documents specified in these Regulations.

(4) The appropriate authority shall on being satisfied and on payment of

the prescribed fees issue a new licence of the same class to the applicant

embodying the new particulars.

71.—(1) It shall be an offence for any person to—

(a) lend his driver’s licence to any other person for use or knowingly

permit the use thereof by another ; or

(b) display or represent as his own any driver’s licence or identification

mark belonging to another or which is fictitious or has been fraudulently

altered in any manner.

72. It shall be an offence for any person to authorise, order, consent or

knowingly permit the operation of any motor vehicle owned by him or under his

control by any person, when he has knowledge that such person is disqualified

or has no legal right to do so.

73.—(1) The Commission shall establish and maintain a Central Data Base

for vehicles and drivers for the Federation.

(2) Every Motor Licensing Authority in any State of the Federation shall

provide to the Commission copies of any records, documents or particulars in

respect of vehicles and licenced drivers.

(3) The Commission shall keep records of all registered vehicles, licenced

drivers and transport operators in the Central Data Base.

(4) Any record kept in the Central Data Base may on request be made

available by the Commission to the Police or any other authority.

(5) The Central Data Base shall operate as the National Central Motor

Registry and the Corps Marshal and Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety

Corps shall be the Registrar.

74.—(1) A person shall not drive on a public road a motor vehicle of any

class or description unless he is the holder of a valid driver’s licence in respect

of that class of vehicle.

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this

regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of

N10,000:00 or term of 1 year imprisonment or to both.

(3) It shall not be a contravention of these Regulations for a member of the

Commission, Armed Forces, Police or other Para-military agencies in the course

of his duty to drive a motor vehicle belonging to the Government if that person

is in possession of a written permit to drive a vehicle of that description issued

by the Commanding Officer provided that person is a licenced driver, licenced

to drive that particular class of vehicle.

Documents for drivers going outside Nigeria.

PART  VIII—INTERNATIONAL  CONVENTION   PROVISIONS

75.—(1) Where a person intends to use a vehicle registered under Part II

of these Regulations outside Nigeria, the appropriate authority shall upon the

payment of the prescribed fees, issue—

(a) a registration document certifying the particulars of that vehicle  as

contained in the register kept by the authority ;

(b) an International Vehicle Certificate for the vehicle in the form specified

in the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic 1968 ;

(c) an International Fiscal Permit for the vehicle in the form set out in the

Geneva Convention of 1931 ; and

(d) an ECOWAS Brown Card.

(2) In the case of a trailer, the appropriate authority shall assign an

identification mark to be inscribed on the trailer while in use outside Nigeria.

(3) The appropriate authority shall not issue an International Vehicle

Certificate under the 1968 Vienna Convention on Road Traffic or any other

documents under this regulation unless the vehicle or trailer has been examined

as provided under these Regulations.

(4) The appropriate authority shall keep a register of documents issued

under this regulation.

76.—(1) The Commission may issue for use outside Nigeria and upon the

payment of the prescribed fees, an International Driver’s Licence and Driving

Permit in the form laid down in the 1968 Convention on Road Traffic, to a

person who has attained the age of 18 years and satisfies the authority that—

(a) he is competent to drive a motor vehicle of the  class for which the

permit is to be issued ; and

(b) he is not disqualified under any of the provisions of the Act or any

other law from driving any motor vehicle of that description.

(2) The appropriate authority may require an applicant for an International

Driving Permit to present himself for examination by an officer appointed by the

appropriate authority to ascertain his competence to drive a motor vehicle of the

relevant class.

(3) Where a Court makes an Order disqualifying a person from holding a

driving licence under the provisions of these Regulations or any law, the court

may also order that the International Driving Permit held by that person, where

he holds one, be cancelled and surrendered to the appropriate authority.

(4) The appropriate authority shall keep a register of all permits issued

under this regulation and record all issuance and cancellation of such permits.

(5) An International Driving Permit shall not be transferable and any person

in contravention of this provision commits an offence and shall be liable on

conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both.

B 1559

77.—(1) A person who brings a motor vehicle into Nigeria must apply and

be granted an International Transit Permit or an International Circulation Permit as

provided in these Regulations if the person satisfies the appropriate authority —

(a) that he is resident outside Nigeria and that the motor vehicle will only

be in Nigeria temporarily ; and

(b) that the provisions of the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Act,

Cap. M21, LFN 2004, as they apply to the use by that person of the motor

vehicle will be complied with while the permit is in force, and furnishes the

following particulars—

(i) full name, age and residential address of the applicant in the country

from which he is coming into Nigeria ;

(ii) date and place of entry of the vehicle into Nigeria ;

(iii) engine and chassis number of the vehicle and other particulars of

the vehicle as the appropriate authority may require ;

(iv) the letters and the number on the registration plates of the vehicle ;

(v) where the vehicle is drawing a trailer, the chassis number of the

trailer and its serial or other identification number ; and

(vi) the address of the applicant in Nigeria.

(2) An International Circulation Permit or an International Transit Permit

shall not be issued for a period which falls after the ninetieth day from the date

on which the vehicle was last brought into Nigeria, and the periods for which

the Permit may be granted to a person in one calendar year shall not exceed

ninety days.

(3) A person granted an International Circulation Permit or International

Transit Permit under this regulation shall when the vehicle is being used on any

public road, display the permit on the front windscreen of the vehicle and shall

on demand, permit any appropriate authority in uniform to examine the permit.

78. After the expiration of an International Circulation Permit or International

Transit Permit, or where a vehicle in respect of which the permit is in force—

(a) is sold or transferred ;

(b) is finally taken outside Nigeria ; or

(c) is destroyed ;

The holder of the Permit shall within 7 days inform the appropriate authority and

surrender the permit.

International transit permits for visitors vehicles.

Restriction on the use of foreign driving licence.

79.—(a) The Commission shall keep a register of International Circulation

Permits and International Transit Permits issued under these Regulations ; and

(b) any appropriate authority who issues a permit under these Regulations,

shall forward to the Commission such particulars relating to the issuance of that

permit as the Commission may require.

80.—(1) A motor vehicle for which an International Circulation Permit is

in force shall carry—

(a) in the case where a visitor’s document in respect of the vehicle is

produced to the appropriate authority, the registration mark in respect of the

vehicle recorded in that document, and a nationality sign indicating the country

under which that registration mark was issued ; and

(b) in the case where a visitor’s registration document is not so produced,

a registration mark assigned to that vehicle by the authority issuing the

International Circulation Permit.

81.—(1) Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, a person resident

outside Nigeria who holds a driving permit issued under the Vienna Convention

in a foreign country which is a party to that Convention, shall, while the permit

is in force, be exempted from the requirements of these Regulations or any other

law in respect of vehicles brought into Nigeria.

(2) This regulation shall not apply to a person—

(a) who under the Act or under these Regulations is disqualified from

holding a driving licence ; and

(b) who has not attained the age of 18 years.

(3) Where a person holding a driving permit issued under the Vienna

Convention in a foreign country is convicted of an offence in Nigeria, in connection

with the driving of a motor vehicle, the Court may—

(a) in addition to any other penalty to which the person may be liable,

make an Order depriving that person of his right to drive any vehicle in Nigeria

for a period specified in the Order ; and

(b) endorse the particulars of the Order on the driving permit.

82. A person shall not use a foreign driving licence to drive any vehicle in

Nigeria.

B 1561

PART  IX—DRIVERS  AND  CONDUCTORS REGISTRATION  AND  BADGES

83.—(1) No person shall drive a stage carriage or omnibus without having

obtained from the appropriate authority a driver’s badge as prescribed in these

(2) A driver’s badge shall only be issued to a person who holds a valid

driver’s licence in accordance with the provisions of Part VII of these Regulations

and it shall not be transferable to any other person.

(3) The appropriate authority shall issue a badge on payment of the fees

prescribed in these Regulations and on being satisfied that in addition to the

applicant holding the appropriate driving licence, he is a fit and proper person to

drive a stage carriage, or an omnibus.

(4) The appropriate authority may require an applicant for a driver’s badge

to pass a test designed to demonstrate his knowledge of the best routes within

the areas in which the law allows him to ply for hire and if the appropriate

authority requires him to pass such a test and he fails to do so, the appropriate

authority shall not issue the badge.

(5) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appropriate authority under

these Regulations may appeal to a Magistrate Court within fourteen days of such

decision.

84.—(1) The owner of a stage carriage or omnibus shall submit to the

appropriate authority for registration the names and addresses of all persons

who he intends to employ as conductors and such persons shall have attained 18

years of age.

(2) The appropriate authority, on being satisfied that such persons are fit

and proper persons to be registered shall upon the payments of the prescribed

fee for each registration, issue to the owner a conductor’s badge as prescribed

under these Regulations for each person so registered.

(3) Upon any person ceasing to act as a conductor in the employment of

the owner, the owner shall so notify the appropriate authority and cause the

badge issued in respect of that person to be returned whereupon the appropriate

authority shall cancel the registration.

(4) A conductor’s badge issued in accordance with these Regulations shall

not be transferable to any other person.

85. The Corps Marshal may, by notification in writing to the appropriate

authority, exempt certain classes of omnibuses from the provisions of sub-

regulation (1) of regulation 83 of these Regulations.

86. A driver or conductor badge issued in accordance with these Regulations

shall be worn in a conspicuous manner by the driver or conductor to whom it is

issued and when, in the case of—

Use and construction of taxis.

(a) the driver, he is driving or in charge of a stage carriage or omnibus on

a public road ; and

(b) the conductor, when he is acting as conductor of a stage carriage or an

omnibus.

87.—(1) If the driver or conductor of a stage carriage or omnibus in

respect of whom a badge has been issued is convicted of an offence under any

of these Regulations or is disqualified from driving or conducting under these

Regulations, the appropriate authority may—

(a) by notice in writing, demand the surrender of such badge, even if, in

the case of a driver, the licence to drive a motor vehicle has not been suspended

or revoked in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations ; and

(b) in the case of the conductor, demand a surrender of the conductor’s

badge to the appropriate authority.

(2) Any driver or conductor who contravenes the provision of sub-

regulation (1) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on

conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or a term of 4 months imprisonment or to

both.

PART  X—TAXIS, STAGE  CARRIAGES,  OMNIBUSES   AND  MOTORCYCLES  FOR  HIRE

88. The Authority may licence a motor vehicle as a taxi, stage carriage,

omnibus or motorcycle on the payment of prescribed fees and published by the

Joint Tax Board provided that the vehicle conforms with the conditions specified

in these Regulations or in any other law.

89. No person shall cause, permit or drive a taxi on any public road unless

the following conditions are satisfied—

(a) the maximum number of persons approved to be carried by the taxi is

inscribed on the two front doors of the taxi ;

(b) the taxi colour must conform with the colour specified in that particular

State or the Federal Capital Territory ;

(c) the word “Taxi” shall be inscribed in white letters 64 millimetres in

height on the top right corner of the windscreen in the front and the rear ;

(d) the taxi shall bear an identification number allocated by the Authority

on payment of the prescribed fee ;

(e) each passenger shall be provided with seating accommodation of a

width of at least 0.406 metres ;

( f ) the taxi shall have two or more entrances on each side ;

(g) the taxi shall not be used for the conveyance of any livestock as to

inconvenience other people in the taxi ;

(h) the number of persons carried in the taxi shall at no time exceed the

number authorised by the competent Authority and as inscribed on the sides

of the taxi ;

B 1563

(i)  the taxi shall at all-time be kept clean ; and

(j) the taxi shall not stand or ply for hire if it is in such a condition as to be

unsafe or unsuitable for the conveyance of passengers or does not conform

with the provisions of these Regulations ;

90.—(1) The taxi shall be fitted with amber or yellow light at the top most

centre of the roof above the front windscreen with the word “TAXI” inscribed

in black lettering on both sides to indicate a taxi at night.

(2)  It shall be so fitted as to be controlled by the parking light switch of

the vehicle.

91.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit a stage carriage to be used on

any public road, or shall drive or have charge of a stage carriage, unless the

following conditions are satisfied, that is—

(a) each passenger is provided with seating accommodation, the supports

of which are firmly fixed in position of a width of 0.356 metres a depth of at

least 0.356 metres and a maximum height of 0.457 metres from the floor of

the stage carriage shall be allowed for the seating accommodation of each

passenger.

(b) in the case of seats facing the direction, a clear space of at least 0.254

metres is allowed between the foremost part of one seat and the rear part of

the seat in front and in the case of seats arranged facing each other a clear

space of at least 0.4482 metres is allowed between the front edge of one seat

and the front edge of the seat facing it ;

(c) the driver’s seat in stage carriage carrying passengers or in a motor

vehicle carrying goods and passengers is not less than 0.610 metres wide and

is so constructed as to be centred on steering column and the seat is completely

divided off from any seating accommodation provided for any person sitting

in the driver’s compartment by a fixed partition approved by the appropriate

authority and no person except the driver shall occupy the driver’s seat ;

(d) in any case where the driver’s seat is so partitioned off, one person

only shall sit in the remaining portion of the driving compartment if the seat

provided exceeds 0.356 metres but less than 0.711 metres in width and if the

seat exceed 0.711 metres in width then not more than two persons may sit

thereon ;

(e) the motor vehicles shall carry a conductor registered in accordance

with these Regulations ;

( f ) the driver of the stage carriage shall abide by any specified routes or

other conditions imposed by the authority ;

(g) the number of persons carried in the stage carriage shall at no time

exceed the number authorised by the appropriate authority as recorded in the

registration book of the vehicle and inscribed on the two front doors; and

(h) the stage carriage shall at all times be kept in clean condition.

Use and construction of omnibus.

(2) For the purpose of sub-regulation (1) (g) of this regulation, the number

of persons shall be calculated as follows, that is—

(a) each person shall be taken as weighing 76.204 kilograms with an

allowance of 12.700 kilograms, hand luggage ; and

(b) two children under the age of twelve years shall be taken as one person

and at no time shall the number of persons to be carried at any one time

exceed the half of the freight or load which the vehicle is authorised to carry.

92. A person shall not cause or permit an omnibus to be used on any public

road, or take charge of an omnibus, unless the following conditions are satisfied,

that is—

(a) the maximum number of persons approved to be carried at a time is

inscribed in letters and figures on the two sides of the omnibus ;

(b) the overall length shall not exceed 12 metres ;

(c) the overhang shall not exceed one-third of the overall length but in the

case of an omnibus body constructed in Nigeria, the overhang shall not exceed

seven twenty-fourth of the overall length ;

(d) the body shall be constructed and designed for the sole purpose of

carrying passengers and hand luggage ;

(e) all seating accommodation shall allow a space of at least 0.356 metres

in length for every passenger ;

( f ) the width of the seats from front to back shall be at least 0.356 metres ;

(g) in the case of seats facing the same direction there shall be provided

space of at least 0.660 metres between the front of the back of one seat and

the back of the seat immediately in front of which space shall not be less than

0.25 metres and at least, shall be clear of obstruction to the floor ;

(h) in the case of seats arranged facing each other there shall be a space of

at least 0.457 metres clear of obstruction between the front edge of one seat

(i) the gang way shall be at least 40 cm wide ;

(j) at least two entrances or exits shall be provided for passengers (one of

which may be an emergency exit) and all entrances or exits not being

emergency exits shall not be less than 0.609 metres wide and shall not be less

than 1.676 metres in height ;

(k) every entrance or exit (other than an emergency exit) shall be on the

rear side of the omnibus ;

(l) every emergency exit shall be fitted with a door which shall be kept

closed except in an emergency and every entrance or exit door shall be capable

of being opened by one operation of the locking mechanism and shall be so

designed as to be readily opened in case of need from both the inside and the

outside of the omnibus ;

B 1565

(m) the steps to the entrance and exits shall be closed and the maximum

height from the ground of the lowest step shall be 0.457 metres ;

(n) the driver’s seat shall be separated from the passengers compartment

by a partition approved by the Vehicle Inspection Officer ;

(o) the minimum internal height of the vehicle from the floor to the roof

shall not be less than 1.7 metres.

(p) there shall be provided a bell or other device electrically or manually

operated which allows the conductor to transmit signals to the driver from

any part of the omnibus ;

(q) the number of persons carried in an omnibus shall at no time exceed

the number authorised by the appropriate authority and recorded in the

registration book of the vehicle ;

(r) the omnibus shall at all-time be kept in a clean condition ; and

(s) the omnibus shall not carry any load or luggage on its canopy.

93.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulations 89, 91 and 92 of

these Regulations, the following categories of vehicles shall carry the number of

passengers including the driver specified under this regulation—

(a) Saloon car – 5 persons

(b) Station wagon – 7 persons

(c) 10 seater bus – 10 persons

(d) 14 seater bus –  14 persons

(e) 16 seater bus – 16 persons

( f ) 18 seater bus – 18 persons

(g) Coaster bus  – 21 persons

(h) Luxury bus  – 35-55 persons

(2) In the case of other passenger carrying commercial vehicles, to carry

not more than four passengers in each row provided that each passenger shall

be provided with seating accommodation of a width of at least 0.406 metres.

(3) A passenger vehicle carrying only goods shall be permitted to carry a

weight equal to its registered freight or load.

(4) Where a passenger carrying vehicle carries persons as well as goods,

the total combined weight of the persons calculated with hand luggage and

goods shall not exceed the registered freight or load of such vehicle.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (4) of this regulation,

the number of persons carried on a vehicle shall not exceed the maximum number

allowed by the appropriate authority and proper seating accommodation shall be

made available for each passenger.

Use and construction of motorcycles.

94.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit to be driven any multi-purpose

vehicle on any public road unless—

(a) the maximum gross weight of the vehicle shall not exceed thirty-two

tonnes ;

(b) the maximum load allowed by the appropriate authority to be carried at

any time shall be inscribed in figures in the two front doors of the vehicle ;

(c) be of such shape and colour and shall be clearly distinguishable from

the colour of the background where on the letters and figures are painted ;

(d) the body shall be constructed with a minimum of twenty gauge sheet

metal and fitted with a permanent rigid roof, with or without, a sliding panel ;

(e) any freight or load carried on the vehicle shall be secured in such a

manner as to render it impossible for such freight, load or any person thereof

to fall-off.

(2) The number of passengers carried shall not exceed the number approved

by the Vehicle Inspection Officer.

95.—(1) No person other than the driver and two other persons, who shall

be seated in the driver’s cabin may be carried on any goods carrying vehicle.

(2) No other person shall be carried on the goods compartment on any

goods carrying vehicle or trailer.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation,

the appropriate authority may authorise by written permit the carrying of persons

in excess of two excluding the driver of the vehicle, subject to such conditions

as the appropriate authority may endorse on the permit.

96. Where any stage carriage or omnibus licenced to ply for hire is hired

by any person for use exclusively for any particular purpose such stage carriage

or omnibus shall carry in a conspicuous place on the front and rear thereof a

sign marked “PRIVATE.”

97. A stage carriage or omnibus licenced to operate between specified

points shall not stand or ply for hire on any route other than that approved by the

appropriate authority.

98.—(1) A person shall not cause or permit another person to ride a

motorcycle for the purpose of hire or reward on any public road unless the

following conditions are satisfied -

(a) the cubic capacity of the motorcycle is 100cc and above but not more

than 200cc ;

(b) the motorcycle shall bear an identification mark and number allocated

by the Authority to distinguish it from other non-commercial motorcycles on

the payment of the prescribed fee ;

B 1567

(c) the motorcycle shall  carry only the rider and one passenger at a time ;

(d) the motorcycle shall not carry any other load on the tank, in front of

the rider, in between the rider and passenger or on the head of the rider or

passenger ;

(e) both the rider and the passenger shall wear approved safety crash

helmets while on motion and which shall be fastened or securely fitted under

the chin ;

( f ) the motorcycle shall be kept clean at all times ;

(g) the rider of a motorcycle shall wear a coded reflective jacket at night as

approved and provided by the appropriate authority on the payment of a

prescribed fee ;

(h) unless while overtaking, no two motorcycles shall be ridden parallel to

each other ;

(i) no motorcycle shall be used to tow another ;

(j) a motorcycle shall be fitted with two pneumatic tyres on its wheels and

at no point of its circumference shall the depth of the tread be less than 1

millimetre ;

(k) the motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one braking system

which will have sufficient effect on both wheels to bring the motorcycle to a

stop while on reasonable speed ;

(l) the motorcycle shall while the engine is on, be sufficiently silent as to

prevent unnecessary noise ;

(m) the exhaust pipe of any motorcycle shall not emit excessive gas ;

(n) all motorcycle shall have one headlight, two trafficators at the front

and the rear, one parking light at the rear, one brake light and white light to

shine on the number plate ;

(o) all motorcycles shall be equipped with factory fitted horn sounding not

more than single note ;

(p) all motorcycles shall be equipped with two rear view mirrors, one on

each side near the handle bar ; and

(q) all motorcycles shall be fitted with two sets of foot rests for both

passenger and the rider ;

(2) A person shall not sell or authorise for sale any motorcycle without

approved safety helmets accompanying each and the helmets shall comply with

standards approved by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria or any appropriate

authority.

(3) The rider of a motorcycle shall not carry any person in front of him

while on motion.

(4) The motorcycle shall not carry any other load on the tank, in front of

B 1568

Prohibition of noise.

99. A person shall not ride, cause or permit another person to ride a

motorcycle with three wheels on any road or public road unless it shall—

(a) not carry more than four persons including the rider ;

(b) be kept clean at all times ;

(c) conform with the colour specified in that particular State or the Federal

Capital Territory ;

(d) be fitted with three pneumatic tyres on its wheels each of which at no point

of its circumference shall the depth of the tread be not less than 1 millimetre ;

(e) have at least one or a maximum of two head lights, two parking lights

at the front and the rear, two trafficators at the front and the rear, brake light

and a single white light to shine on the number plate ; and

( f ) on no account be used for inner-city commuter service.

100.—(1)  The appropriate Authority may—

(a) fix maximum and where necessary, minimum fares for taxis, stage

carriages and omnibuses ;

(b) require taxis plying for hire to be fitted with a metre or other device

approved by the appropriate authority for the purpose of indicating the

authorised fare for any journey ;

(c) fix time tables for and determine stopping places in relation to stage

carriages and omnibuses plying for hire on any specified routes ; and

(d) determine the days and hours of operation during which stage carriages

and omnibuses may ply for hire.

(2) The metres specified in sub-regulation (1) (b) of this regulation, shall

be regulated and published by the appropriate authority and any persons aggrieved

may appeal to any Magistrate Court.

101.—(1) Every taxi, stage carriage or omnibus shall be required to carry

and exhibit a copy of the table of fares and the time-table (if any) applicable to it,

printed in bold letters and placed in such a position on the vehicle as the appropriate

authority may direct and every metre or other device for indicating authorised

fares shall be kept in good working condition.

(2) Any person who demands or receives more than the approved fares

commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to

a term of 3 months imprisonment or both.

.

102. The owner, driver or conductor or any person acting on behalf of the

owner, driver or conductor of a taxi, stage carriage or omnibus standing or

plying for hire shall not—

(a) speak, make any noise or sound any instrument in order to attract the

attention of the public or of a possible passenger ; or

B 1569

(b) act in any way as to make himself objectionable or a nuisance to any

person, cause any annoyance or inconvenience to any person.

103. The driver of a taxi, stage carriage omnibus or any other vehicle shall

not smoke, eat or drink while driving.

104. Where any person wishes to engage a taxi of a particular seating

capacity or type and if such a taxi is not the first one on the stand, the driver of

the first taxi of the required seating capacity or type on the stand shall accept the

hire.

Smoking, eating or drinking while driving.

Taxis for hire.

105.—(1) All taxis on the stand shall move up as vacancies occur and the

driver of a taxi shall not without reasonable cause refuse to—

(a) be hired when the vehicle is on the stand at the taxi park ; or

(b) drive the vehicle to the final destination as agreed with hirer at the time

of hire ; or

(c) carry such number of passengers, not exceeding the number specified

in the registration book for the vehicle.

(2) The driver of a taxi shall not, unless requested to do so by the hirer,

stop his vehicle for a longer period than is reasonably necessary and if not hired,

he shall not stop his vehicle for a possible hirer while driving on any public road

except at a designated parking point or taxi stand.

106. Where the driver of a taxi or the conductor or driver of a stage

carriage or omnibus finds any property forgotten in the vehicle he shall without

any delay take it to the nearest Corps office, Police Station, or to the driver’s

union office in the motor park.

107. No person shall, while travelling in or upon a stage carriage or

omnibus—

(a) use any obscene, indecent, offensive or quarrelsome language or gesture,

or behave in any manner likely to annoy or insult any other person ;

(b) wilfully interfere with the comfort of any other passenger ;

(c) spit on or out of, or wilfully soil any other part of the vehicle ;

(d) wilfully damage, deface the vehicle or any part thereof or any part of

its equipment ;

(e) wilfully do or cause to be done with respect to any part of the vehicle

or its equipment anything which is calculated to interfere with the working of

the stage carriage or omnibus or so as to cause injury or discomfort to any

other passenger ;

( f ) wilfully obstruct or impede the driver or conductor in the exercise of

their duty ;

Taxis driver not to refuse to be hired without reasonable excuse.

Passenger

manifest.

(g) enter into conversation with the driver of the vehicle while the vehicle

is in motion ;

(h) smoke or carry a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette in any part of the

vehicle whether or not a notice prohibiting smoking is exhibited in the vehicle ;

(i) sell or offer for sale or distribute any goods or printed material of any

description ;

(j) throw away article from any part of the vehicle ;

(k) refuse to pay his fare when demanded ; or

(l) cause an obstruction on the entrances or exits or to the passenger way

used to obtain access to the seats in the vehicle.

108.—(1) All passenger-carrying commercial vehicles shall, before

commencing any intercity journey, keep and maintain a passenger manifest

indicating the names of its passengers, their addresses, their point of departure

and destination, their telephone numbers, name and telephone number of the

next of kin.

(2) Where the journey is broken by reason of some passenger alighting

before the final destination, another passenger may be admitted on board and the

terminal point of the former shall be recorded and the particulars of the latter

entered in the manner prescribed in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation.

(3) A person taking charge of a motor vehicle shall not admit or cause to be

admitted on board the vehicle, any passenger who fails or refuses to furnish his

particulars in accordance with the provisions of this regulation.

(4) The driver or person taking charge of a passenger-carrying commercial

vehicle shall, when requested by the appropriate authority, present the manifest

for examination.

(5) The passenger manifest shall be bound in the form of a booklet and

kept in triplicate such that one copy shall be deposited with the office at the

point of departure, another kept at the office of the final destination and a copy

kept as a permanent record for future reference in the vehicle and shall be in the

form prescribed in Form MVA 18 of Schedule 2 to these Regulations.

(6) A driver or a person taking charge of a passenger carrying commercial

vehicle who fails to comply with the provision of this regulation commits an

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000:00 or to a term of

6 months imprisonment or both.

(7) A person shall not—

(a) cause or permit any vehicle to park or ply for hire unless the vehicle is

licenced under these Regulations ;

(b) cause or permit any vehicle to park or ply for hire unless the vehicle

has an identification number plate as required by these Regulations ;

B 1571

(c) cause or permit any vehicle to ply for hire unless the table of fares,

timetable (if any) and the number of passengers the vehicle is licenced to

carry is exhibited ; or

(d) cause or permit any taxi which is required to be fitted with a meter or

other device for indicating authorised fares to park or ply for hire unless the

meter or device is in good working condition or, while hired, fails to put such

metre or device into operation, or alters, damages or interferes in any way

with the proper operation of such metre or device ;

(e) cause or permit any taxi, stage carriage or omnibus to stop for

passengers at any place other than an approved place ; or

( f ) while in charge of a stage carriage or omnibus pick up or discharge

passengers except at an approved place.

(8) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation

a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

PART  XI—USE  OF  SCHOOL  BUSES

109.—(1) All school buses shall be registered as commercial vehicles.

(2) Any vehicle used as school bus shall be uniformly coloured and the

exterior shall have a yellow (hexa decimal colour code FFFFOO) background

with two stripes (3cm) spaced  by 2cm running from the bonnet upward across

the roof down the backend.

(3) A school bus shall be conspicuously marked “School Bus” above the

wind screen, close to the bus roof.

(4) A school bus exterior shall have the inscription of the name of school,

the logo, serialised code on both sides and at the front view.

(5) A school bus shall be equipped with well-displayed reflective colour

materials or stripes and markings to enhance safety.

110. An applicant for a school bus driver’s or assistant school bus driver’s

permit shall—

(a) possess a valid class ‘E’ driver licence with minimum of five years

driving experience ;

(b) undergo annual general medical fitness test, alcohol and drug test at

any National Health Insurance Scheme approved hospital ;

(c) be persons with no criminal record of indictment or jail term ;

(d) undergo a minimum of nine hours training within three years as a pre-

condition for the renewal of his driver’s licence ; and

(e) undergo in-service training programme, which shall include seminars,

workshops, conferences on the use of the road and Child psychology.

Penalty for contravention.

111.—(1) The procedure for selecting a driver and assistant driver of a

school bus shall be as prescribed by the Federal Road Safety Commission.

(2) In addition to any procedure that may be prescribed by the Commission

under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, before a person is selected as a

driver or assistant driver of a school bus, he shall undergo vision acuity and

general medical fitness examinations including—

(e) chronic arthritis ;

(f) E.E.G screening for epilepsy ; and

(g) ear defect.

(3) The vision acuity and general medical fitness examinations under sub-

regulation (2) of this regulation shall be carried out in any government hospital.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions relating to a driver or

assistant driver of a school bus commits an offence and shall be liable on

conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of six months imprisonment or to

112.—(1)   All operators of school bus shall be registered with the

(2) A person applying to be registered as operator of a school bus shall

obtain a Permit after fulfilling the necessary requirements as prescribed by the

(3) The operators permit shall be valid for three years and shall not be

transferable.

(4) An applicant for a permit as operator of school bus shall possess a valid

National Driver Licence.

113. A school bus operator shall acquire a comprehensive insurance cover

for the school bus and its occupants from an insurance company registered by

National Insurance Commission.

114. A school bus operator with up to five vehicles in his fleet shall establish

a safety unit and appoint a qualified Safety Manager to head the unit.

115. Any person who contravenes any regulation under this part commits

an offence and shall where no special provision is provided in this part, be liable

on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or

B 1573

PART  XII—USE    AND  CONSTRUCTION

116.—(1)  A person shall not drive, cause, or permit to be driven, a motor

vehicle or trailer on any public road unless -

(a) the vehicle with its net weight exceeding 254 kilograms shall be capable

of moving either forward or backwards ;

(b) the overhang of the motor vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 0.291

metres including the measurement of the overall length of the chassis ; provided

that the provisions of this regulation shall not apply to an omnibus ;

(c) the height from the ground level of the vehicle or trailer with any

freight or load placed thereon shall not at any point exceed 3.353 metres;

provided that where the freight or load is entirely composed of seed and

cotton, or cotton lint, foams and plastic the height of such freight or load

from the ground level may be increased to 3.810 metres ; or

(d) the freight or load on any motor vehicle shall be carried in such a

manner as not to render the freight or load or any part thereof insecure when

the motor vehicle or trailer is in motion ;

(2) No freight or load whatsoever shall be carried on the top or outside the

hood, canopy or roof of any motor vehicle other than the spare tyres for such

vehicle unless the vehicle is in possession of a certificate issued to that effect by

the appropriate authority ;

(3)   The freight or load whose weight is more than that for which the

vehicle is constructed to carry shall not be carried by any commercial vehicle or

trailer and the owner of any vehicle or trailer shall inscribe the net weight of the

vehicle, the weight of freight or load where required by the appropriate authority

the axle weights on some conspicuous part of the vehicle ;

(4)  No passenger other than an escort or conductor shall be carried on a

trailer ;

(5) No passenger shall be carried on a commercial vehicle not being a

stage carriage or taxi or hearse other than the owner or hirer of the vehicle or the

owner of the goods carried on the vehicle or the servants or agents of the hirer ; and

(6) No person shall stand in or on a motor vehicle or trailer which is not

covered while in motion.

(7) A motor vehicle or trailer and all parts and accessories of such vehicle

or trailer shall be in such condition as not to cause or likely to cause danger to

any person therein or other road users or any property lying on or adjoining the

road.

117.—(1) A vehicle or trailer shall not exceed 2.8 metres in width and 12

metres overall length inclusive of any load thereon.

Permit for abnormal or Super dimensional loads.

(2) No load may protrude more than 0.914 metres beyond the front elevation

of a motor vehicle or trailer or more than 1.829 metres beyond the rear elevation

of the vehicle or more than 0.76 metres beyond either side of the vehicle, and

where the load projects more than 1.219 metres behind the rear elevation of

such vehicle, a red flag shall be fixed by day to the extreme end of the load and

a red lamp by night in a similar position and the flag or lamp shall be clearly

visible from the rear.

118.—(1)  A motor vehicle or trailer which carries a load which by its

nature is indivisible and unavoidably exceeds the prescribed dimensions but not

an axle load limit shall not be driven on any public road except a special permit as

provided in regulation 55 of these Regulations is issued by the appropriate authority

and upon the payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) The cost for safe movement of the cargo shall be borne by the registered

owner of the vehicle.

(3) Where there is an abnormal load the width of which exceeds 2.8m, the

registered owner shall provide an escort vehicle at the owner’s expense.

(4) Where a vehicle carries a super load that can cause damage to the road,

road furniture or road structure, the registered owner must comply with the

conditions laid down in the permit issued by the appropriate authority to avoid

damage to any part of the road.

(5) Where visible damage is done to a road, road structure or road furniture,

the registered owner shall be required to compensate the appropriate authority

for the damage and shall be liable for any cost, charges or expenses as regards

an axle or gross vehicle weight overload fee payable in accordance with these

(6) Where a vehicle is overloaded and the load is considered to be loaded

abnormally, it shall not be off-loaded at the weigh bridge station unless special

and safety precautions are taken and the registered owner of the vehicle shall be

required to pay a prescribed fee for each overloaded axle or for the excess gross

weight.

(7) Where the destination is further away from the starting point, the driver

shall take the vehicle to the starting point for off-loading to legal limits after

having paid the overload fee and if the destination is near the vehicle may proceed

after having paid the regular overload fee and the surcharge shall be paid in

accordance with these Regulations.

(8) A person is disqualified from being issued a permit if that person has an

outstanding debt as regards monies payable under these Regulations.

(9) Subject to the provisions on liability for an overloaded vehicle under

this regulation, fees and costs payable shall not exclude penalties for other traffic

offences associated with it.

B 1575

119.—(1) A motor vehicle and trailer shall be fitted with pneumatic tyres

on all its wheels and at no point of circumference of such tyres shall the depth

of the tread be less than one millimetre.

(2) No person shall use or cause to be used on a road any motor vehicle or

trailer any wheel of which is fitted with a re-cut pneumatic tyre, the fabric of

which has been exposed by the re-cutting process.

(3) Tyres of vehicles shall carry on the side walls full specifications on

safety regarding load capacity, maximum speed permitted, pressure and codes

for date of production.

(4) All commercial motor vehicles carrying ten or more passengers shall

have emergency exits.

(5) The front and rear bumpers shall be made of collapsible materials, 50

cm by 12cm above the surface of the road and be spaced at least 12cm from the

main frame of the vehicle.

(6) All motor vehicles plying any public road shall be in possession of good

electric or air horn, jack, wheel spanner, tools, fire extinguisher, inflated spare

tyre, first aid box, emergency warning triangles or cones, laminated windscreen

and mirrors, speed governor, wipers, insurance certificate and road worthiness

certificate.

(7) The fire extinguisher for different categories of vehicles are as follows—

(a) Articulated Vehicles/Trailers          . .            ..           ..         2 Nos. 9 Kg ;

(b) Lorries              . .          . .            . .           . .           ..         2 Nos. 6 Kg ;

(c) Luxury Buses   . .          . .            . .           . .          . .         2 Nos. 6 Kg ;

(d) Buses                 ..          . .            . .           . .            ..         1 No. 2 Kg ;

(e)  Pick-up Vans    ..          . .            . .           . .            ..         1 No. 2 Kg ;

(f)  Taxi Cab/Private Cars   . .            . .      ..        ..     . .          1 No. 2 Kg ;

(8) The fire extinguisher shall not be an expired one and shall conform to

the specifications set out in Schedule 13 to these Regulations.

(9) The driver of a motor vehicle, other than a two-wheeled motorcycle,

whose vehicle is stationary on a road shall give adequate advance warning to

approaching drivers of the obstacle which that vehicle constitutes by placing an

advance warning triangle or a red or amber blinker traffic lantern or reflective

cones at suitable points both at the rear and front of the vehicle and at a distance

from the vehicle sufficient to give the said warning but which shall not be less

than 45m.

(10) (i) An advance warning triangle shall consist of an equilateral triangle

with sides not less than 40cm long and red border not less than 5cm wide and

with its interior part either yellow or of a light colour.

(ii) The red border shall be illuminated or fitted with a reflectorized stripe

or a reflectorized blinker where applicable.

Tyres, First

Aid Boxes, Fire extinguishers, etc.

B 1576

Silencers and exhaust pipes.

(iii) An advance warning triangle shall be in a form that it can stand firmly

on its own in a vertical position.

(11) A person shall not remove an advance warning device so displayed

until the obstructing vehicle is removed and any person who contravenes the

provisions of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

120.—(1) A motor vehicle shall be equipped with two entirely independent

and efficient braking systems, or with one efficient braking system having two

independent means of operation, in either case designed, constructed or maintained

that the failure of any single portion of the braking system shall not, even under

the most adverse conditions, prevent the brakes on two wheels or in the case of

a vehicle having less than four wheels, on one wheel, from operating effectively

so as either to hold such wheels from revolving or to have the same effect in

stopping the motor vehicle as if such wheels were so held.

(2) In the case of a single braking system, the two means of operation

shall not be deemed not to be independent solely by reason of the fact that they

are connected either directly or indirectly with the same cross shaft.

(3) In the case of a motor vehicle having more than three wheels and

equipped with two independent braking systems, each system shall be so

constructed, designed and maintained that if it acts (either directly or indirectly)

on two wheels, it shall act on two wheels on the same axle.

(4) Where in the case of a single braking system, the means of operation

are connected either directly or indirectly with the same cross shaft, the brakes

applied by one of such means shall act on all the wheels of the motor vehicle

directly and not through the transmission gear.

(5) In all cases, the brakes operated by one of the means of operation shall

be supplied by direct mechanical action without the intervention of any hydraulic,

electric or pneumatic device.

(6) In all cases, the brakes operated by one of the means of operation shall

act directly upon the wheels and not through the transmission gear.

(7) Except in the case of motorcycle, with or without a side-car, the braking

systems shall be so designed, constructed and maintained that it may be set so

effectually to prevent two at least, or in the case of a motor vehicle having only

three wheels, one of the wheels, from revolving when the vehicle is left

unattended.

(8) A motor vehicle must be capable of being so operated that it may move

either forward or backward.

121.—(1) The engine of any vehicle shall while on motion be efficiently

silent to avoid unnecessary noise and no cut outs or open exhausts shall be used.

B 1577

(2) Exhaust pipes for heavy duty diesel operated trucks shall be positioned

to the kerb or near side.

(3) The exhaust pipe of any motor vehicle shall not emit excessive gas.

122.—(1) All motor vehicles shall have complete headlights, parking lights

and trafficating lights in good working condition.

(2) All motor vehicles and trailers between sunset and sunrise, shall be

required to carry lighted lamps which shall be electric or other kind of light

approved for the purpose by the appropriate authority and no other light of any

colour other than those which are laid down in these Regulations shall be exhibited

on any vehicle without the express permission in writing of the appropriate

authority, provided that all illuminated mascots, if fitted as a standard fitting may

be retained and illuminated direction trafficators may be used.

(3) The lamps referred to in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation shall be

placed as follows—

(a) motor vehicles, except motorcycles without side-cars, shall carry at

least two lamps in front, one on each side of the vehicle, so constructed or

placed as to exhibit a white light which shall be within a reasonable distance in

the direction towards which the vehicle is facing and clearly indicate the

width of the vehicle ;

(b) in the case of commercial vehicles when either of the lamps referred to

in regulation (a) of this regulation is placed in such a position that the distance

of the centre of the lamp from the extreme outside point of the vehicle on its

appropriate side exceeds 0.305 metres two additional lamps shall be fitted at

the front side of the vehicle one of each side so that its centre shall not exceed

the aforesaid distance of 0.305 metres and so clearly as to indicate the width

of the vehicle to approaching traffic and the lamps shall be focused below the

horizontal and exhibit a light of sufficient power only to indicate the width of

(c) all motor vehicles shall carry at least two tail lamps with reflectors

which when illuminated shall be visible within a reasonable distance and shall

be placed one on either side of the rear of the vehicle so clearly as to indicate

its width; one of such lamps shall be so constructed as to illuminate and

render easily distinguishable every letter and figure on the identification plate

fixed on the back of the motor vehicle, unless a separate lamp is carried

which adequately fulfils this purpose ;

(d) a motorcycle without a side-car shall carry one lamp in front so

constructed or placed as to reveal a white light visible within a reasonable

distance in the direction towards which the motorcycle is facing ;

(e) a motorcycle without a side car shall have one red tail lamp with a

reflector and when illuminated shall be visible within a reasonable distance

and shall be placed in an unobstructed position on the rear of the motorcycle and

be so constructed as to illuminate or render easily distinguishable every letter and

figure on the identification plate fixed on the back of the motorcycle ;

Lighting system.

B 1578

(f)   motor vehicles shall carry two yellow stop lights which shall be

illuminated whenever the foot brake of the vehicle is engaged and shall be

placed at the back of the vehicle; provided that a motorcycle with or without

a side car shall carry only one such stop light.

(g) when a trailer is attached to a motor vehicle, paragraph (b), (e) and (f)

of this sub-regulation shall also apply to the trailer ;

(h) trailers shall be fitted with reflectors on both sides of the back of the

trailer showing the letter “T” in amber written on white reflective background

of the tail board which shall be of a minimum height of 10.152 metres;

(i) any head lamp shall be placed so as to project above the bottom of the

frame of the windscreen and shall not be placed more than 1.069 metres or

less than 0.601 metres from the ground.

(j) no side, parking or rear lamp shall exceed six watts ;

(k) no head lamp shall be used unless such lamp is so constructed, fitted

or maintained that the beam of light emitted there from—

(i) is permanently deflected downwards to such extent that it is at all

times incapable of dazzling any person, standing on the same horizontal

plane as the vehicle at the greater distance of not more  than 6.100 metres

from the lamp whose high level is not less than 1.070 metres above the

plane ;

(ii) can be deflected downwards or both downwards to the right at the

wheel of the driver in such a manner as to render it incapable of dazzling

any person in the circumstances aforesaid ; or

(iii) can be extinguished by the operation of a device at the same time

causing a beam of light to be emitted from the light which conforms with

sub-regulation (1) of this regulation ;

(l) all motor vehicles shall be fitted with a device for deflecting or

extinguishing lights ;

(m) no light other than a yellow light or light of such other colour as may

be prescribed shall be affixed to the front of any vehicle ; and

(n) no light other than the red light shall be affixed to the rear of any

vehicle except that a white light may be exhibited when the vehicle is in the

process of being reversed.

(4) Motor vehicles exceeding 9.144 metres in length shall be required to

carry the following additional lights :

(a) two white lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the

front, at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest point of the

vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers the width and height of the

(b) two red lights, not exceeding six watts, which shall be placed on the

rear at the extreme offside and nearside, and at the highest practicable point

B 1579

of the vehicle, so as to indicate to approaching drivers from the rear, the

width and height of the vehicle.

123. All motor vehicles shall have reflective red and silver tapes fitted to

the rear and sides of the vehicle in a manner conforming to the specifications in

Schedule 16 to these Regulations of the vehicle which shall be 101.60mm (4

inches) in width and 305mm (12 inches) in length as provided in Schedule 16 to

124.—(1) A motor vehicle shall be fitted with electric horn sounding not

more than a single note and the use by motor vehicles of any form of warning

appliances other than of a type approved by the appropriate authority is prohibited.

(2) No motor vehicle shall be fitted with excessively loud horns such that

when used the sound would constitute a nuisance or distraction to other road

users.

125.—(1) All vehicles shall be equipped with at least two mirrors which

shall be fitted externally, one on the offside and the other on the nearside of the

vehicle and the mirrors shall be so constructed or fitted to the motor vehicle as

to assist the driver to be aware of traffic to the rear and on both sides rearward.

(2) A motor vehicle shall carry a driving mirror which shall be so fixed

inside the vehicle as to enable the driver when driving to have a clear view

reflected in the mirror of any following traffic.

126.—(1) Every vehicle shall have fitted in the front and rear seats, seat

belts and child safety seats which shall be securely worn by the driver and the

other occupants of the vehicle while the vehicle is on motion

(2) A seat belt per seating position in a motor vehicle, and if seating

accommodation is provided for more than two persons abreast, whether by

means of continuous seat commonly known as bench seat or by separate seats,

the seat belts for the person other than those seated next to the body of the car

may consist only of the lap strap seatbelt.

(3) The driver of a motor vehicle shall be responsible for the children who

are passengers in such a vehicle and shall ensure that -

(a) the proper use of child locks in every vehicle where one is installed ;

(b) the proper use of child safety seats for every child that is 7 years and

below ; and

(c) that child seats are not installed in the front row of any vehicle.

(4) A child shall be exempted from the provisions of this regulation where

a medical report is produced and signed by a licenced medical practitioner to the

effect that it is inadvisable on medical grounds for the child to wear a seat belt.

(5) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of

6 months imprisonment or to both.

Laminated windscreen and safety glass.

127. A motor vehicle or trailer when moving on any public road shall have

its wheels properly aligned to the chassis so that the true rolling motion of the

wheels or trailer shall be conveyed to the road and no motor vehicle or trailer

with a defective wheel, steel hub, or axle tree, shall be used on any public road.

128.—(1)  A motor vehicle shall be provided with a strong and reliable

steering gear which shall be provided in such a state of repair and adjustment as

to allow the vehicle to be turned readily and with certainty and the steering

apparatus or driving gear of a motor vehicle shall be so arranged that the driver

can manipulate the controls with certainty and at the same time have a clear

view of the road.

(2) A motor vehicle for use on Nigerian roads shall be equipped with steering

air bag installed to prevent head injury to the driver in case of a crash.

(3) The importation of any vehicle with steering apparatus fitted on the

right hand side of the vehicle is prohibited.

(4) A motor vehicle shall not be registered or driven on any public road if

the steering apparatus of the motor vehicle is fitted on the right hand side of the

vehicle.

(5) Upon the arrest of any vehicle with steering apparatus fitted on the

right hand side of the vehicle, the appropriate authority may apply to the High

Court for an order of forfeiture of the vehicle to the Commission and the vehicle

shall thereafter be destroyed.

(6) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N20,000:00 or 6 months

129.—(1) A motor vehicle, including motorcycle and semi-trailer, shall be

equipped with suitable free acting or efficient springs, and these springs shall be

kept at all times in proper alignment or properly secured to the axle or to the

frame of the vehicle so that no undue lateral movement is allowed.

(2) In this regulation, “motor vehicle” includes vehicles with air or hydraulic

suspensions.

130.—(1)  All glass fitted to a motor vehicle shall be laminated or safety

glass approved by the appropriate authority and shall be maintained in such

condition as not to obscure the vision of the driver while the vehicle is being

driven on any public road, and no ornaments or impediments of any description

shall be placed on or near such glass which are likely to obscure the vision of the

driver to both the front and the rear of the vehicle.

(2) All glass fitted to a vehicle shall be clear and transparent to enable

persons outside the vehicles see whoever is inside the vehicle and all such glass

shall in no way be tinted except as may be approved by the appropriate authority

for security reasons.

B 1581

131. A motor vehicle shall be fitted with electronically or mechanically

operated windscreen wipers which shall be maintained and kept in proper working

condition.

132. A motor vehicle or trailer shall be provided with mudguards to catch

as far as practicable mud or water thrown up by the rotation of the wheels

unless adequate protection is afforded by the body of the vehicle.

133. Every motor vehicle shall be fitted with an efficient speedometer

which shall be plus or minus ten per cent accurate at 50 kilometres per hour and

shall be maintained in proper working condition at all times.

134. Tankers carrying spirit, explosives or other inflammable substances

(a) be fitted with double pole armoured wiring with insulated return electrical

units and a battery insulation master switch ;

(b) carry warning danger labels to be displayed conspicuously at the front

and rear of the vehicle as specified in Schedule 12  to these Regulations ;

(c) under no circumstance carry additional freight or load on top of the

tanker ; and

(d) park in designated parking lots approved by the appropriate authority

and which shall be away from populated areas.

135. A motorcycle shall be fitted with two leg guards placed in such a

position and of a type approved by the appropriate authority.

136.—(1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of

regulation 117 of these Regulations, the appropriate authority may grant a

permit in writing for particular occasions, for the carriage by a motor vehicle

or trailer of any specified freight or load which by reason of the nature of the

freight or load is incapable of being so placed on the vehicle as to conform to

(2) The permit referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be

carried by the driver of the motor vehicle on such occasion or occasions and

shall be produced by him on demand by any appropriate authority.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulation 117 of these Regulations,

the appropriate authority may grant a permit in writing for particular occasion(s)

for the use of a motor vehicle or trailer which does not conform with the

requirement of the said regulation and such permit shall be subject to any conditions

endorsed thereon and shall be carried by the driver of the motor vehicle and shall

be produced by him on demand by any appropriate authority.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulation 117, the appropriate

authority may grant a permit in writing exempting a specific type of motor

vehicle or trailer from the requirements of the said regulation.

Windscreen

wipers.

Illuminated indicators.

(5) The permit referred to in this regulation shall state concisely and precisely

the conditions which have necessitated the issuance of the permit.

137.—(1) A semi-trailer shall not be used on any public road unless—

(a) the coupling provided for attaching the trailer to a prime mover shall be

efficient for the purpose ;

(b) the three or four wheeled semi-trailer exceeding 0.508 tonnes net weight

or two wheeled trailer exceeding 0.254 tonnes net weight shall have a brake

in good working condition which shall be operated from the cab of the motor

vehicle and which when applied shall cause two of the wheels of the trailer on

the same axle to be so held that the wheels shall be effectually prevented from

revolving, or shall have the same effect in stopping the trailer as if such

wheels were so held ;

(c) the gross weight of a two or three wheeled trailer shall not exceed four

tonnes and the gross weight of a four wheeled trailer shall not exceed the

prescribed axle limit as provided in Form MVA 29 of Schedule 15 to these

(d) not more than twelve tonnes shall be carried on any single axle or

sixteen tonnes on a tandem axle of a trailer ;

(e) the wheel base of any trailer having an axle weight of six tonnes or over

shall not be less than 3.048 metres between axle centres ; or

( f ) not more than one passenger may be carried or be permitted to be

carried in a trailer.

where a trailer is drawn only by a tractor.

(3) The appropriate authority may by consent in writing, and subject to

any condition which may be imposed; exempt a particular trailer from these

provisions and may authorise the appropriate authority to give consent in writing.

138.—(1)  A motor vehicle (including motorcycle) shall be fitted with

efficient direction trafficators and shall conform to any of the following—

(a) two direction trafficators which shall, when in operation, be in the

form of an illuminated sign of amber colour of a minimum illuminated length

of 0.203 metres and of a maximum illuminated breath of one-fourth of the

length and the illumination surface shall be visible from both the front and the

rear of the vehicle provided that the illuminated trafficators of all articulated

vehicles shall cover the whole length of both sides of such vehicles;

(b) four direction trafficators two of which shall be fitted at the front of

the vehicle and two at the rear of the vehicle, which shall, when in operation,

be in the form of a flashing sign clearly visible within a reasonable distance

when facing the front of the vehicle and shall be of an amber or red colour

and they shall be fitted to the front and the rear of the vehicle in such a

position as to indicate clearly when in operation, that the vehicle is turning

either left or right; or

B 1583

(c) two direction trafficators one of which shall be fitted to the near side of

the vehicle and one to the far side of the vehicle which shall, when in operation,

when facing both the front and rear of the vehicle and front part of each

indicator shall be of an amber or white colour and the rear part shall be of an

amber or red colour and they shall be fitted in such a manner as to indicate

clearly when in operation, that the vehicle is turning either left or right.

(2) In the case of a motor vehicle not fitted with electric lighting equipment

or where it is impracticable to obtain an illuminated indicator conforming to the

requirements of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation every motor vehicle including

a motorcycle with or without side car shall be fitted with at least two efficient

direction trafficators which shall be in the form of a pointer not less than 0.305

metres in length and 51 millimetres in breadth presenting, when in operation, a

white surface visible from both the front and the rear of the vehicle.

(3) Direction trafficators intended to indicate a right hand turn shall be

fitted only on the near side and direction trafficators intended to indicate a left

hand turn shall be fitted only on the off side or left side of the vehicle and the

driver of the vehicle, when on his driving seat, shall be readily aware that such

trafficators are operating correctly.

(4) A direction indicator shall be so fitted that, when not in operation it shall

not be likely to mislead any other road user or any person controlling traffic.

(5) A light shown by a direction indicator shall be diffused by means of

frosted glass or other adequate means.

139.—(1)  A person shall not drive any uninsured vehicle, trailer, stage

carriage or omnibus on any public road, and any person who contravenes the

provision of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

(2) The insurance of vehicles as required under these Regulations shall be

in accordance with the provisions of the Motor Vehicle (Third Party Insurance)

Act, 2004 or comprehensive insurance cover.

(3) It shall be an offence to drive any vehicle with forged or false insurance

papers and a person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and

shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 6 months

140.—(1) A vehicle intended to be used on any public road, shall before it

is registered or licenced, be submitted for examination in accordance with this

regulation, upon payment of the prescribed fees.

(2) The examination shall be conducted for new private vehicles every

two (2) years or when it has covered a mileage of 100,000 kilometres whichever

comes first.

Road- worthiness certificate.

(3) The examinations under sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall be

conducted—

(a) for all other private cars beyond two years old once in a year ; and

(b) in the case of commercial vehicles, omnibuses and trailers, the

examination shall be every six months.

(4) The examination shall be conducted to determine whether—

(a) the motor vehicle is road-worthy conforming to the prescribed

requirements relating to its construction, condition, accessories and other

equipment ; and

(b) the condition of the motor vehicle is such that its use on the road will

not pose a danger to any other road user or cause damage to the road or any

road furniture.

(5) An examination under this regulation shall be conducted by the

appropriate authority or any other examiner as the appropriate authority may

authorise to conduct the examination.

(6) No fee shall be payable by the owner for the first examination of any

vehicle under this regulation but the prescribed fee shall be required to be paid in

respect of every subsequent examination of the vehicle.

141. The appropriate authority may authorise an examiner to conduct the

examinations subject to such conditions as the appropriate authority shall determine

and the appropriate authority may for the purposes of motor vehicle examinations —

(a) maintain vehicle examination stations where examinations may be

conducted ; and

(b) maintain the apparatus for conducting the examinations.

142.—(1) Where a vehicle is found to be road-worthy, the Vehicle Inspection

Officer shall issue a certificate to that effect as in Form MVA 19 specified in

Schedule 3 to these Regulations which shall remain valid in the case of private

vehicles and motorcycles for twelve months and in every other case for six

months.

(2) Notwithstanding, the provisions of this regulation, the issuance of road-

worthiness certificate to any particular vehicle be it private or commercial as in

Form MVA 20 specified in Schedule 3 to these Regulations shall be accompanied

by a road-worthiness validity tag which shall be conspicuously displayed on the

windscreen of such vehicle.

(3) A duplicate certificate shall be issued upon application to the Vehicle

Inspection Officer and upon payment of the prescribed fees but where the

registration book has been lost the appropriate authority shall authorised the

issuance of a replacement of the certificate (if any).

(4) The requirement for road worthiness certificate shall apply to motor

vehicles owned by military and paramilitary organisations.

B 1585

(5) A person shall not drive, use or permit any other person to drive or use

any motor vehicle on a road except there is in force, a valid road - worthiness

certificate in respect of the motor vehicle.

143.—(1)  Where a vehicle is found not to be road-worthy in any respect

whatsoever the owner of the vehicle shall be served with a notice in writing as

specified in Form MVA 21 set out in Schedule 3 to these Regulations by the

appropriate authority setting out the defect to be remedied, and a red sticker

pasted on the windscreen of the vehicle and the owner shall not after receipt of

such notice permit the vehicle to be used or submit the vehicle for licence to any

Authority until such time as the defects have been remedied.

(2) The form of the red sticker may be determined by the Commission and

the appropriate authority, from time to time.

144. A notice “OFF THE ROAD” shall be affixed on the windscreen of any

vehicle found to be unroad-worthy, by the appropriate authority. The notice

shall be as prescribed in Form MVA 22 of Schedule 3 to these Regulations.

145.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall be used on any public road if the axle

weight does not comply with the weight limits prescribed in Schedule 15 to

(2) The appropriate authority may, by consent in writing and subject to

any conditions, exempt any vehicle trailer or plant used for the construction or

maintenance of road or bridges from complying with this regulation.

(3) A consent given under this regulation shall be carried at all times on the

vehicle until its revocation or expiration.

146. A motor vehicle other than a two-wheeled motorcycle without a side-

car shall be equipped at the rear with at least two red reflex reflectors other than

the triangular form and—

(a) on either side, the outer edge of the illuminating surface farthest from

the vehicle’s median longitudinal plane shall not be more than 0.40 metres

from the extreme outer edge of the vehicle ; and

(b) the reflex reflectors shall be visible to the driver of an approaching

vehicle from the rear at night in clear weather, at a distance of at least 150

metres when illuminated by the driving lights of that vehicle.

147.—(1) A trailer shall be equipped with at least two red reflex reflectors

and—

(a) each reflector shall have the shape of an equilateral triangle with one

vertex uppermost and one side horizontal, and with sides not less than 0.15

metres or more than 0.20 metres long ;

(b) on either side, the outer edge of the illuminating surface farthest from

the trailer’s median longitudinal plane shall not be more than 0.40 metres

from the extreme outer edge of the trailer so however that, any trailer with an

Ascertainment of weight.

overall width not exceeding 0.80 metres may be equipped with only one

reflection if it is coupled to a two-wheeled motorcycle without a side car; and

the reflectors shall meet the requirements for visibility specified in these

(2) A reflector required to be fitted to a vehicle under this regulation shall—

(a) not be lower than 30cm and not higher than 150cm from ground level,

measured to the centre of the retro-reflector, provided that if due to the design

of the vehicle, it is impossible to fit retro-reflectors on the sides of the body

of the vehicle at the prescribed height, the retro-reflectors shall be fitted as

near as possible to the prescribed height ;

(b) where it is a white retro-reflector, to be in a vertical position and face

squarely to the front ; and where it is a red retro-reflector, to be in a vertical

position and face squarely to the back ;

(c) where it is a yellow retro-reflector, to be in a vertical position and face

squarely to the side not withstanding anything to the contrary contained in

(d) be clean and in good condition and not be obscured to the extent that it

will be rendered ineffective ; and

(e) not be fitted to any movable or rotating part of the vehicle except that

this provision shall not apply to a warning sign contemplated under these

(3) A motor vehicle manufactured, built or imported by a registered

manufacturer, builder or importer may have a red retro-reflector fitted at the

side towards the rear of the motor vehicle.

(4) Where due to the design of the vehicle it is not possible to fit a retro-

reflector in the prescribed position, it may be fitted as close as possible to the

position prescribed under this regulation.

(5) A trailer shall be equipped at the front and the rear with two white

reflex reflectors each, other than triangular form reflectors and the reflectors

shall meet the positioning and visibility requirements specified under these

148.—(1)  An appropriate authority may, at any time and for reasonable

cause, require a commercial vehicle or trailer to be driven to any reasonably

convenient place to have its net or gross weight or any axle weight ascertained,

and the person driving or in charge of such vehicle or trailer shall comply

accordingly.

(2) The appropriate authority may cause weight bridges or other devices

for detection to be installed on roads at designated points and may erect road

signs which shall require a category of motor vehicle to be weighed or subjected

to a test using the device.

B 1587

(3) Any person driving a vehicle or who being in charge of a motor vehicle

disobeys or disregards a direction or a road sign created pursuant to the provisions

of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation; or who, when required to submit the

vehicle for weighing by the appropriate authority or any other public officer

authorised on its behalf, fails or refuses to submit the motor vehicle to be weighed,

commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a

term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

(4) A person shall not drive, take charge, cause or permit to be driven a

motor vehicle or trailer on any public road as to contravene any of the provisions

of this regulation.

149.—(1)  Subject to the provisions of these Regulations, heavy goods

vehicle licences issued by the appropriate authority shall be required for driving

agricultural machines, articulated vehicles, earth moving vehicles, trailers and

spirit carrying tankers.

(2) A heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence shall be issued under this regulation

upon the completion of a driving test conducted by the appropriate authority or

any approved driving school in pursuance of regulation 56 of these Regulations

and upon an application for the licence made to the appropriate authority.

(3) A heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence shall, unless previously revoked,

continue in force for three years from the date on which it is expressed to take effect.

(4) Subject to the provision of regulation 47, a heavy goods vehicle driver’s

licence may at any time be suspended or revoked by the appropriate authority on

the ground that the holder is not a fit and proper person to hold such a licence

and during any time of suspension such a licence shall be void.

(5) Where the holder of a heavy goods vehicle driver’s licence is disqualified

under sub-regulation (4) above, the appropriate authority shall not afterwards

grant him another licence to drive a heavy goods vehicle of any class unless

satisfied that he has since the disqualification passed the prescribed test of

competence to drive vehicles of that class, and until he passes that test, any

licence obtained by him shall be void.

150.—(1)    A person shall not drive, permit or cause another person to

drive or park a heavy goods vehicle of any class mentioned under this regulation,

on any road or area on which the driving or parking of such vehicles has been

prohibited by any appropriate authority.

(2) The maximum load allowed by the appropriate authority to be carried

at any time for vehicles under this regulation shall be inscribed in figures on the

two front doors of the vehicle.

(3) Any freight or load carried shall where the vehicle is an open trailer or

truck, be secured or covered in a manner as to render it impossible for such

freight or load to fall out while the vehicle is in motion and no freight or load

whatsoever shall be carried on the top or outside the hood, canopy or roof of

such vehicle other than the spare tyres for such vehicle unless the vehicle is in

possession of a certificate issued to that effect by appropriate authority.

Speed limit.

(4) No load may protrude more than 0.914 metres beyond the front elevation

of the vehicle or more than 1.829 metres beyond the rear elevation of the vehicle

or more than 0.76 metres beyond either side of the vehicle, and where the load

projects more than 1.219 metres behind the rear elevation of such vehicle, a red

flag shall be fixed by day to the extreme end of the load and a red lamp by night

in a similar position and the flag or lamp shall be clearly visible from the rear.

(5) All vehicles under this regulation shall have complete headlights, parking

lights and trafficating lights in good working condition and vehicles exceeding

9.144 metres in length shall be required to carry the following additional lights—

151.—(1) A vehicle or trailer used to transport hazardous goods or materials

(i) be suitable for transporting hazardous goods or materials and be free

from any defect likely to increase the likelihood of such goods or materials

causing a danger to other road users ; and

(ii) where the goods or materials are contained in a holding container, be

fitted with holding twist locks or fitted with other equipment or gadget for

securing the holding container on a vehicle.

(2) Any equipment on a vehicle used for loading or offloading hazardous

goods or materials shall be suitable for that purpose and free from any defect

likely to cause danger to other road users while transferring such goods or

materials.

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of

9 months imprisonment or to both.

PART  XIII—SPEED LIMITS

152.—(1) A person shall not drive a vehicle on any public road in excess of

the prescribed speed limit provided in Schedule 8 to these regulations or as may

be published from time to time by the Commission.

(2) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (1) of this regulation no person shall

drive a vehicle on any public road in excess of the speed limit indicated by an

appropriate road traffic sign in respect of that road.

B 1589

(3) A person shall not ride or drive recklessly any vehicle or drive at a

speed of more than 12.87 kilometres an hour, any vehicle carrying a load which

projects 0.914 metres or more beyond either end of such vehicles.

(4) A person shall not drive a vehicle on any public road which is not fitted

with a speed limiter.

(5) Any person who acts in contravention of this regulation shall be guilty

of an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of

imprisonment of 3 months or to both.

(6) In determining the speed at which a particular vehicle is travelling on

any public road, members of the Corps shall make use of Radar Gun or any

other device that may be approved by the Commission from time to time.

(7) Radar Gun referred to under sub-regulation (6) of this regulation shall

be certified and calibrated once in every 12 calendar months by the Standard

Organisation of Nigeria.

153. Notwithstanding the provisions sub-regulations (1) and (2), of

regulation 152 of these Regulations the driver of a fire fighting vehicle, a rescue

vehicle or an ambulance who drives such vehicle in the carrying out of his

duties, an officer of the law who drives a vehicle in the carrying out of his duties

or any person driving a vehicle while engaged in civil protection may exceed the

prescribed speed limit provided that -

(a) he shall drive the vehicle concerned with due regard to the safety of

other road users ; and

(b) in the case of any such fire-fighting vehicle, rescue vehicle, ambulance

or vehicle driven by a person while he is so engaged in civil protection, such

vehicle shall be fitted with a device capable of emitting a sound and with an

identification lamp, as prescribed by the Commission, and such device shall

be so sounded and such lamp shall be in operation while the vehicle is driven

in excess of the applicable speed limit.

PART  XIV—USE  OF  SIRENS

154.—(1)  No person other than the President of the Federal Republic of

Nigeria, Vice President, President of the Senate, Speaker of the House of

Representatives, Chief Justice of Nigeria, Deputy President of the Senate, Deputy

Speaker of the House of Representatives, Governors and Deputy Governors of

States shall drive a vehicle on any public road using sirens, flashers or beacon lights.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of

this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of

N3,000:00 or to a term of 7 months imprisonment or to both.

155.—(1)  A driver or person having control of a vehicle who knowingly

and without reasonable excuse obstructs a vehicle authorised by this regulation

to use sirens, flashers or beacon light commits an offence and shall be liable on

conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 6 months imprisonment or to both.

Destruction of traffic signs and signals.

(2) The driver of any vehicle authorised to use siren, flashers and beacon

light shall be duly certified by the appropriate authority to drive such vehicle.

(3) Any person who drives a vehicle having or using a siren, flasher or

beacon light without the certification from the appropriate authority commits an

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 6 months

(4) A person shall not import into Nigeria or manufacture sirens, flashers,

or beacon light unless such a person obtains a permit from the appropriate

authority for that purpose.

(5) Any siren, flasher, or beacon light imported or manufactured in Nigeria

without a permit obtained in accordance with the provisions of this regulation

shall be forfeited to the Commission and the Commission shall sell by auction,

such items to authorised dealers or manufacturers after obtaining a court order.

(6) Any person who is involved in the importation or manufacturing of

siren, flasher or beacon light without permit from the appropriate authority

PART  XV—TRAFFIC  SIGNS

156.—(1) A person driving or in control of a vehicle shall—

(a) obey all directions, whether verbal or signal given by the appropriate

authority to stop the vehicle or make it slow down or keep to any directed line

of traffic or to park at an indicated place ;

(b) obey all traffic signs or traffic signals on any public road ;

(c) obey all notices on any public road where such notices are erected or

exhibited in accordance with these Regulations or by an authority responsible

for the construction or maintenance of the public road for the purpose of

prohibiting, restricting, or regulating traffic over bridges or sections of the

public road ; and

(d) stop when approaching a pedestrian crossing to allow pedestrians

standing at the pedestrian crossing to cross the road.

(2) No person shall, unless otherwise directed by an appropriate authority,

fail to comply with any direction conveyed by a road traffic sign displayed in the

prescribed manner as specified in Schedule 9 to these Regulations.

(3) Failure to obey a road traffic sign is an offence and any person caught

contravening this regulation shall be liable to pay a fine of N5,000:00 for each

traffic sign violation or to a term of 9 months imprisonment or to both.

157.—(1) No person shall damage any road traffic sign or traffic signal,

or any other sign, signal, marking or other device, displayed in terms of these

Regulations, or without lawful authority remove any road sign or traffic signal

or alter the position thereof or the inscription, lettering, colour or marking thereof

or thereon.

B 1591

(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of this regulation commits

an offence and shall be liable to a fine of N5,000.00 or to a term of 9 months

(3) In any prosecution for a contravention of or a failure to comply with a

provision of  sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, it shall be presumed, in the

absence of evidence to the contrary, that the road traffic sign concerned was

displayed by the appropriate authority under the power conferred by this regulation

or any other law.

158. The driver of a fire-fighting vehicle, a rescue vehicle or an ambulance

who drives such vehicle in the performance of his duties, an officer of the law

who drives a vehicle under emergency situation or while engaged in civil protection

may disregard the directions of a road traffic sign which is displayed in the

prescribed manner, provided that—

in disregard of the road traffic sign.

159.—(1) A person driving or in control of a vehicle must ensure that there

are mechanically or electrically operated trafficators fitted to the vehicles which

shall be used as signals while driving.

(2) A person driving or in control of a vehicle may in addition to using

mechanically or electrically operated trafficators make use of hand signals

specified in Schedule 7 of these Regulations.

(3) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation

a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both.

160. The driver of a vehicle on a public road who intends to stop such

vehicle or suddenly reduce the speed thereof, or to turn such vehicle to the left

or to the right, or to move such vehicle to the left or right on the road, shall give

a conspicuous signal, in the manner prescribed in this regulation, of his intention,

visible to any person approaching him from the front or from the rear or from

the side, and of a duration sufficient to warn any such person of his intention.

PART XVII—RULES ON ROAD CROSSING

161.—(1) The driver or person having control of any vehicle shall—

(a) not cross a public road unless the road is clear of moving traffic or a

sufficient distance to allow him to cross the road without obstructing or

endangering any other road user ;

Rules on driving on public roads.

B 1592

(b) not enter an intersection or other marked area, unless there is sufficient

space on the other side of the intersection or other marked area to accommodate

the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or

pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed ;

(c) except when overtaking vehicles proceeding in the same direction,

pass such vehicle only on the left side thereof.

(d) not enter a public road unless he can do so with safety to himself and

other road users ;

(e) slow down and reduce his speed when approaching a school or

playground ; and

( f ) at all times give preference to children, the elderly, the physically

challenged and visually impaired persons with any sight aid who wish to

cross the road at pedestrian crossing points.

(2) The driver of a vehicle shall, where it is necessary by reason of the

width or condition of the road, slow down his vehicle in order to allow other

vehicles approaching him or overtaking him to pass.

(3) The driver of a vehicle on a public road divided into traffic lanes by

appropriate road traffic signs shall not turn from one lane into or across another

lane unless he can do so without obstructing or endangering other road users.

Overtaking.

(4) When two or more vehicles approach each other, the driver of each

vehicle shall, where by reason of the width and condition of such public road it

is necessary or desirable to do, cause his vehicle to slow down for the purpose

of allowing safe passage of the other vehicle or any other road user.

(5) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this regulation

commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 in

addition to any other penalty imposed under any extant law or Regulations.

162.—(1) A driver of a vehicle shall, when approaching and passing another

vehicle coming from the opposite direction, drive his vehicle on the right or near

side of the public road.

(2) A driver of a vehicle when overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the

same direction, shall pass such vehicle on the left or off-side thereof, except

when the driver in front has signaled his intention to turn left or when vehicles

are moving slowly in queues and vehicles in the left lane are slower than he is.

(3) The driver of any vehicle shall before rounding any curve or corner, or

entering or crossing a road or approaching a curve reduce the speed of the

vehicle and shall in rounding any curve or corner keep as close as possible to the

right hand side of the road.

(4) The driver of any vehicle shall when negotiating a bend or any curve at

which the road ahead is not visible for a distance not more than 92 metres or

entering or crossing or attempting to pass any traffic travelling in the same direction, shall not otherwise than by reason of an enforced stoppage or owing

to the necessities of traffic, stop his vehicle within 8 metres from any corner.

(5) A person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall—

(a) when driving, maintain complete control over the vehicle and have full

visibility of the traffic.

(b) take due cognizance of the signs illustrated in these Regulations, and all

traffic signs and notices lawfully placed on or near a road for the guidance of

drivers of vehicles and road users.

(c) not leave a disabled vehicle on the road if it is incapable of movement

by pushing it off to the right side, and in such case shall cause the vehicle to

bear lighted lamps or other warning signs at the front and rear at all times as

specified in these  Regulations.

(6) The driver of a slow moving vehicle shall drive on the extreme shoulder

of a public road so as not to cause up to four vehicles being held up and unable

to overtake.

(7) Any person who fails to observe any of the provisions of this regulation

commits an offence and liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00.

163.—(1) Every driver of a motor vehicle parking on any road shall park

in such a way that it does not cause or is likely to cause danger, obstruction or

undue inconvenience to other road users and if the manner of parking is indicated

by any sign board or markings on road side, he shall park his vehicle in such

manner.

(2) A driver of a motor vehicle shall not park his vehicle—

(a) at or near a road crossing, a bend, top of a hill or a humpbacked bridge ;

(b) on a foot-path ;

(c) near a traffic light or pedestrian crossing ;

(d) on a main road or one carrying fast traffic ;

(e) opposite another parked vehicle or as obstruction to other vehicle ;

( f ) alongside another parked vehicle;

(g) on roads or at places or roads where there is a continuous white line

with or without a broken line ;

(h) near a bus stop, school or hospital entrance or blocking a traffic sign

or entrance to a premises or a fire hydrant ;

(i) on the wrong side of the road ;

(j) where parking is prohibited ; or

(k) away from the edge of the footpath.

Use of communication devices while driving.

164. Where a vehicle is parked in a place or in such a manner as to cause

an obstruction to other road users and the vehicle is not immediately moved, the

provisions of regulation 119 of these Regulations shall apply.

165.—(1) The driver of a vehicle approaching a railway level crossing

shall stop such vehicle within 15 metres but not less than 5 metres from the

nearest rail of such railway level crossing, and shall not proceed until such

driver can do safely so.

(2) The driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle as described in sub-

regulation (1) of this regulation above where—

(a) a clearly visible electric or mechanical or signal device gives warning

of the immediate approach of a train or rail car ;

(b) a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman gives a signal of the

approach or passage of a train or rail car ; or

(c) an approaching train or rail car is plainly visible and the vehicle is in

dangerous proximity to such crossing.

(3) A person shall not drive any vehicle through, around or under any

railway crossing gate or barrier at a railway crossing while such gate or barrier

is closed or is being opened or closed.

(4) Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offence and

shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months

Part XIX—RULES  OF  DRIVING  AND  GENERAL  DUTIES  OF  DRIVER

OF  VEHICLES  OR  PASSENGERS   ON  PUBLIC  ROAD

166.—(1)   No driver of a vehicle shall whilst the vehicle is in motion

receive or make a telephone call in any form.

(2) An instructor shall not make or receive telephone call in any form while

supervising a learner undertaking driving lessons.

(3) Any person acting in contravention of the provisions of sub-regulations

(1) or (2) of this regulation commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N4,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

(4) A person shall not be held to have contravened the provisions of these

Regulations if at the time of the alleged contravention he is—

(i) using the telephone or other device to call the police, fire service,

ambulance or other emergency service ; or

(ii) acting in response to a genuine emergency.

(5) For the purposes of this regulation, a telephone call shall include—

(i) sending or receiving oral or written messages ;

(ii) sending or receiving facsimile documents ;

(iii) sending or receiving still or moving images ; or

(iv) accessing, surfing or browsing the internet.

167.—(1)  A person who drives or operates a vehicle on a public road

dangerously or recklessly commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N50,000:00 or to a term of 2 years imprisonment or to both.

(2) For the purposes of this regulation, driving a vehicle on a public road in

a dangerous or reckless manner includes—

(a) causing such vehicle to travel backwards unless it can be done in

safety, or cause it to run backwards for a distance or time longer than may be

necessary for turning or other reasonable purpose ;

(b) following another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent

having regard to the speed of such other vehicle and the condition of the

road, or more closely than is prescribed in these Regulations ;

(c) driving a vehicle between sunset and sunrise without the use of lighted lamps ;

(d) permitting any person, animal or object to occupy any position in or on

such vehicle which may prevent the driver thereof from exercising complete

control over the movements of the vehicle or signalling his intention of

stopping, slowing down or changing direction ;

(e) when driving such vehicle, permit any person to take hold of or interfere

with the steering or operating mechanism of the vehicle ;

( f ) when driving such vehicle, occupy such position that he does not have

complete control over the vehicle or does not have a full view of the road

ahead of such vehicle ;

(g) leaving the vehicle unattended on any public road with the engine running

or quit the vehicle without having applied its brakes or adopting such other

method as will effectively prevent the vehicle from moving from the position

in which it is left and without taking precautions against the vehicle being

started in his absence ;

(h) leaving the vehicle if demobilised or broken down, on any public road

except at the right or nearside or shoulder of the road and in such case, cause

such vehicle to bear lighted lamps at the front and rear of the vehicle between

sunset and sunrise ;

(i) permitting any person to ride on the wings, running boards, fender, or

sides of the vehicle except for the purpose of testing the vehicles during

repairs ;

(j) permitting, in the case of a commercial vehicle, any person to ride on

the steps, tail-board, or roof of the vehicle, nor on any load or freight on the

vehicle or on any trailer drawn thereby ;

(k) where a vehicle is being drawn by another vehicle, permitting any

person to be carried in the vehicle being drawn except the person in charge ;

Driving a vehicle on a public road in a dangerous or reckless manner.

(l)  if such vehicle is parked or is stationary at the side of a public road,

driving the vehicle from that position unless he is able to do so without

interfering with vehicles approaching from any direction and with safety to

himself  and other road users ;

(m) allowing any portion of his body to protrude beyond such vehicle

while it is in motion on a public road except for the purpose of giving any

hand signal which he is required or authorised to give in terms of these

Regulations or unless he is engaged in examining or testing such vehicle ;

(n) causing or allowing the vehicle thereof to run in such manner that it

emits excessive gas or fumes which would not be emitted if the engine were

in good condition or ran in an efficient manner ;

(o) negligently or wilfully depositing or causing or permitting to be deposited

any petrol or other liquid fuel or any oil or grease or other flammable or

offensive matter, ashes or other refuse, of whatever nature, from such vehicle

upon or alongside a public road ;

(p) causing or allowing the engine thereof to run while petrol or other

flammable fuel is being delivered into the fuel tank of such vehicle, or cause

or allow such engine to be started up before the delivery of the petrol or other

flammable fuel into the fuel tank of such vehicle has been completed and the

cover of such fuel tank has been replaced ;

(q) be asleep while driving or in control of a vehicle ;

(r) allowing any person to enter or alight from a vehicle on a public road,

unless such vehicle is stationary and unless the person can do so with safety

to himself and other road users ;

(s)  operating or permitting to be operated on a public road a vehicle in

such a manner as to cause any excessive noise which can be avoided by the

exercise of reasonable care on his part ;

(t) except in the case of a motorcycle, driving a vehicle, without carrying

at least one spare tyre, capable of being fixed to an axle, a jack or any appliance

sufficiently strong to lift the vehicle for the purposes of changing a wheel and

the necessary tools for effecting such a change ;

(u) driving a vehicle with worn out tyres ; or

(v) driving a vehicle without a prescribed fire extinguisher.

(3) A driver or any person in charge of a vehicle who overloads the vehicle

with passengers or loads beyond the capacity permitted or prescribed in these

regulations commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of

N10,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

(4) A driver or any person in charge of a vehicle who drives a vehicle

without a windscreen or with cracked or shattered windscreen commits an

offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of 6

months imprisonment  or to both.

168.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall have protruding or tailing loads and all

loads shall be contained within the permissible overall dimension in accordance

with regulation 118 of these Regulations.

(2) A vehicle shall not have its load spilling on a public road such that it

causes danger to other road users or litters the public road. All such load shall be

adequately covered. Any person who contravenes this provision commits an

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 9

months imprisonment or to both.

(3) No person, other than the driver, shall take hold of or interfere with the

steering or operating mechanism of a vehicle while it is in motion on a public

road, unless it may reasonably be inferred that the driver is no longer capable of

steering or controlling such vehicle. Any person who contravenes this provision

(4) No passenger in a vehicle on a public road shall permit any part of his

body to protrude beyond such vehicle or open the door of a motor vehicle on the

side available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and

not longer than a period than is reasonably necessary for passengers to board or

alight from the vehicle.

(5) A person shall not enter or alight from any vehicle on a public road

unless the vehicle is stationary and unless he can do so with safety to himself

and other road users.

(6) No person shall in any way obstructs or molest the driver of a vehicle

while the vehicle is in motion.

(7) Any person who in any way obstructs or molest the driver of a vehicle

while the vehicle is in motion commits an offence and is liable on conviction to

a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both.

(8) A motor vehicle shall be so constructed as to enable the driver when

the vehicle is stationary, to stop the action of any machinery attached thereto, or

forming part of the vehicle so far as may be necessary for the prevention of

excessive noise.

169.—(1) A motor vehicle shall not be fitted with an apparatus designed to

produce or amplify sound other than a motor horn and a person shall not use an

apparatus designed to produce or amplify sound in or on a motor vehicle except

under a permit issued by the appropriate authority who may prescribe conditions

or restrictions to be observed.

(2) A person shall not cause or permit to be caused any form of nuisance

through preaching or hawking on a stage carriage, omnibus or other passenger

carrying commercial vehicle while in motion.

(3) Where a vehicle is fitted with a television on the dash board or any part

of the front compartment of the vehicle, the driver or person in control of such Protruding or tailing loads.

Maximum hours of driving.

a vehicle shall allow the television to be switched off while the vehicle is in

motion.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits

170.—(1) No person shall drive, cause or permit any person employed by

him to drive any vehicle—

(a) subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (2) of this regulation, for

any continuous period of more than five hours ;

(b) for periods amounting in the aggregate to more than ten or ten and half

hours in any period of twenty-four hours commencing two hours after

midnight, except that where it is necessary for a driver to conclude a long

distance journey the period may be extended to twelve and half hours in all ;

Hindering or obstructing traffic on public road.

(c) where the driver has not had at least eight consecutive hours of rest in

any period of twenty four hours calculated from the commencement of any

period of driving.

(2) Where the duration of a journey exceeds five hours the driver shall

have intervals of rest not less than thirty minutes in every three hours of the said

journey.

(3) For the purposes of this regulation—

(a) any two or more periods of driving time shall be deemed to be a

continuous period unless separated by interval of not less than thirty minutes

for the purpose of enabling the driver to obtain rest and refreshment ; and

(b) any time spent by a driver on other work in connection with the vehicle

or load carried thereby shall be reckoned as time spent in driving.

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or to a term of

PART XXI—HINDERING OR OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC ON PUBLIC ROAD

171.—(1) Subject to any other provision in these Regulations or any other

law, no person shall—

(a) willfully or without appropriate authorization prevent, hinder or interrupt

the free and proper passage of traffic on public roads ; or

(b) throw or place on any road ; nails, wires, scrap metal, glass, crockery,

sharp stones or other substances injurious to other road users.

(2) Any person who contravenes this regulation commits an offence and

B 1599

PART  XXII—DAMAGE  TO  PUBLIC  ROAD

172.—(1)  No driver of a vehicle or person shall on a public road—

(a) cause a wheel or a part of a vehicle to drag or spin upon the surface of

the roadway, except in the case of an emergency ;

(b) make use of chucks or shoes between any wheel of any vehicle moving

along the roadway and the surface of such roadway ; or

(c) use any vehicle or thing or move any vehicle or thing on the roadway in

a manner causing or likely to cause damage thereto.

(2) Where any structural damage has been done to any road or to any

street or   traffic light   by a person or persons (whether or not the person or

persons has or have been charged with the offence of causing such damage or

with any other offence under the   Federal Road Safety Commission

(Establishment) Act, 2007 or any other law) the appropriate authority shall recover

the cost of making good such damage from the person or persons that caused

or that is responsible for the damage, the owner or driver of the vehicle or the

thing that caused the damage, or all of them jointly.

(3) Where damage is caused as aforesaid the appropriate authority or any

person acting under its authority shall seize the motor vehicle or thing involved

in the damage, or cause it to be seized and remove same to the nearest Federal

Road Safety Commission Office or Police Station or to any premises under the

control of the appropriate authority and may for such purpose use such force as

may be reasonably necessary for the seizure or the removal of the vehicle.

(4) The cost of making good the damage shall be assessed and certified in

writing by the appropriate authority or any person acting under its authority who

shall thereafter serve the certificate of such assessment on the person to whom

sub-regulation (1) of this regulation relates and the certificate shall contain a

demand notice for the payment of the cost as certified into government treasury.

(5) Any vehicle or vehicles or thing seized pursuant to sub-regulation (2)

of this regulation shall be detained until the amount of the cost of making good

the damage as certified under sub-regulation (3) of this regulation has been paid

in the manner prescribed.

(6) Where after 6 months the driver or the owner of the vehicle fails to pay

for the cost of repairs of the damaged road, the vehicle shall be auctioned in line

with section 10 (5) (b) of the Act and the proceeds used to pay the full cost of

the repairs Damage to road and road fittings.

PART XXIII—PEDESTRIANS AND  PEDESTRIAN CROSSING

173.—(1)  Where a pedestrian crossing is situated in conjunction with a

traffic signal, a pedestrian shall not enter such crossing except in accordance

with the indications of such traffic signal as prescribed in these Regulations.

(2) In circumstances not referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation,

the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping to Compliance with traffic signals at pedestrians crossings.

Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor.

yield to a pedestrian crossing the road within a pedestrian crossing when the

pedestrian is upon that half of the road upon which the vehicle is travelling, or

when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the road

as to be in danger.

(3) No pedestrian shall suddenly enter a pedestrian crossing and walk or

run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver

to yield as contemplated in sub-regulation (2) of this regulation.

(4) Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a pedestrian crossing to permit

pedestrians to cross the road, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from

the rear shall not pass such stopped vehicle.

(5) A pedestrian, when crossing a public road by means of a pedestrian

crossing or in any other manner, shall not linger on such road but shall proceed

with due dispatch and no person shall loiter on any pedestrian crossing.

(6) A pedestrian may cross a public road only at a pedestrian crossing or

an intersection or at a distance no further than 91.44 metres from such pedestrian

crossing or intersection or where a pedestrian overhead bridge is provided for,

pedestrians must use such overhead bridge for crossing.

(7) Whenever a sidewalk or footpath terminates on the public road, a

pedestrian shall not walk on such road except for the purpose of crossing from

one side of such road to the other.

(8) A pedestrian on a public road which has no sidewalk or footpath

terminating on the road, shall walk as near as is practicable to the edge of the

road facing oncoming vehicles on such road, except where the presence of

pedestrians on the road is prohibited by a prescribed road traffic sign.

(9) No pedestrian shall cross a public road without satisfying himself that

the road is sufficiently free from oncoming traffic to permit him to cross the

road in safety.

(10) No pedestrian on a public road shall conduct himself in such a manner

as to or as is likely to constitute a source of danger to himself or to other road

users on such road.

(11) Any person who acts in contravention of this regulation shall be liable

on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months imprisonment or

PART XXIV—DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS

174.—(1) No person shall drive a vehicle or occupy the driver’s seat of

any vehicle on a public road while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a

drug having a narcotic effect while the engine is running.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of sub-regulation (1) of this

regulation, commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of

N5,000:00 or a term of 1 year imprisonment or to both.

B 1601

175.—(1) The prescribed limit of alcohol permitted shall be—

(a) 0.5 grammes in 100 millilitres of alcohol ; or

(b) 80 milligrams in 100 millilitres of urine or blood test

which shall be determined by use of a breath analyzer to be conducted by a

member of the Corps or in case of urine or blood test by a medical officer who

shall make a report on the results of the test and which results shall be endorsed

on the registration book of the vehicle.

(2) The breath analyzer shall be certified and calibrated once in 12 calendar

months by the Standard Organisation of Nigeria to ensure that it is in good

working condition.

176. Where a person without reasonable excuse refuses to subject himself to the tests as provided under this regulation, he commits an offence and liable on

conviction to a fine of N5,000:00 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to

Prescribed alcohol limit.

177.—(1) The appropriate authority or any person authorised by the

Commission shall where a vehicle is parked in contravention of these Regulations

paste on the vehicle a parking ticket indicating—

(a) that the vehicle would be removed by it within 24 hours if not removed

by the owner ; and

(b) the fine to be paid in the parking ticket.

(2) The failure to issue a ticket shall not affect the right of the appropriate

authority or any person authorised by the Commission to remove such vehicle.

(3) The appropriate authority or any person authorised by the Commission

may notwithstanding the provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation, cause

the vehicle to be removed immediately where the vehicle is parked in a position

or condition as to cause obstruction or constitute danger to other road users.

(4) The appropriate authority or any person authorised by the Commission

may use such force as may be reasonably necessary, for the purpose of removing

the vehicle from the public road or gaining access to any part of the vehicle, in

order to facilitate the removal of the vehicle.

178. Where a vehicle is removed pursuant to these Regulations, the owner

or driver of the vehicle shall be liable to a fine of N200:00 for every day or part

thereof for which the vehicle is in the custody of the appropriate authority in

addition to any other prescribed penalty under these Regulations or the Act for

wrongful parking.

179.—(1)  The Commission or any other appropriate authority shall—

(a) provide and maintain removed vehicle parks where vehicles removed pursuant to these Regulations are parked ;

Provisions relating to removed vehicles park.

(b) provide suitable facilities (including equipment and manpower) for the

removal of vehicles in pursuance to these Regulations ;

(c) ensure the safety and security of removed vehicles in their custody ;

(d) provide and maintain a record containing particulars of each removed

vehicle and its content specifying—

(i)  date of removal of the vehicle ; and

(ii) the park where it is being kept,

irrespective of whether an application for recovery of the vehicle has been made.

(2) The Commission or appropriate authority shall not be under any duty

to protect vehicles removed pursuant to these Regulations from damage

occasioned by sun, rain, wind, other physical conditions, any other natural cause

or circumstances beyond the control of the Commission or appropriate authority.

Procedure for reclaiming removed vehicles.

Failure to reclaim vehicle.

180.—(1) The owner or driver of a removed vehicle who wants to recover

the said vehicle shall furnish the officer in charge of the park where the vehicle

is kept with—

(a) satisfactory evidence of his ownership of the removed vehicle ;

(b) evidence of compliance with the provisions of regulation 171 of these

regulations on the payment of a fine ; and

(c) where it is an agent or driver of the owner, proof that he is the authorised

agent or driver of the owner.

(2) Nothing in these Regulations shall be construed as precluding the officer

in charge of the removed vehicle park from asking for proof of the identity of

the person seeking to recover the removed vehicle.

181.—(1) Subject to compliance with regulation 178 of these Regulations,

the officer in charge of a removed vehicle shall release the vehicle upon payment

of the towing charges and other penalties that may be imposed.

(2) The certificate shall be as specified in Form MVA 26 as contained in

Schedule 10 to these Regulations.

182.—(1) Where the driver or owner of the vehicle fails to reclaim such

vehicle within six months of the date of its detention, the Corps or any appropriate

authority may apply to the High Court for an order of forfeiture of the vehicle to

the Corps or any other appropriate authority which may thereafter dispose of

the vehicle by public auction and deposit the proceeds of the sale in the Government

treasury.

(2) Where an application in respect of the removed vehicle is made by the

Corps or any other appropriate authority pursuant to sub-regulation (1) of this

regulation, the court may order the forfeiture of the vehicle and the content

therein to the Corps or any appropriate authority which may dispose of same in

B 1603

(3) A person claiming to be entitled to the benefit of a charge or lien on a

removed vehicle and or its contents may at any time before an order of forfeiture

is made by the Court apply to the court for an order protecting his interest in the

vehicle or the contents therein, and the Court may make an order vesting the

vehicle or its contents on the person and on such terms as it deems fit.

(4) Any unclaimed money recovered at the scene of road traffic crash

shall be paid into the Government Treasury after a period of three months of

such recovery and receipt of payment shall be kept by the Commission.

PART  XXVI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  EXPRESSWAY

183.—(1)  The following dimensions and weights shall be the maximum

permissible for any vehicles using any expressway :

Length      ..           . .                 . .   18.288 metres

Width       . .            . .                 . .   2.591 metres

Height       ..           . .                 . .   3.25 metres

(2) The permissible weight and axle load of any vehicle used on any

expressway shall conform to the provisions of Schedule 15 to these Regulations.

(3) The appropriate authority may when necessary, permit in writing for

the carriage by a motor vehicle or trailer of any specified freight or load which

by reason of the nature of the freight or load is incapable of being so placed on

the vehicle as to conform to these Regulations

184.—(1)  No person shall be involved in or permit on any Expressway

except where expressly permitted under these Regulations, the Act or any other

Law :

(a) the movement of cattle or livestock, other than that carried in a motor

vehicle or at designated points ;

(b) the buying or selling of livestock ; or

(c) the grazing of livestock on or immediately adjacent to any expressway.

185.   The use of tri-cycles, motorcycles under 50cc, invalid carriages,

hand pushed trucks, bicycle, pedal cycles, perambulators and pedestrians are

not permitted on any expressway, except on tracks and paths which have been

designated for such use and shall not cross any expressway except at designated

locations.

186.  Agricultural machines shall not be driven on any expressway.

187.—(1)  A person shall not load or permit the loading or off-loading of

any passenger or goods except at designated location or bus-stops on the

expressway.

(2) A person shall not open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available

to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so.

Parking on expressway.

(3) A driver of a vehicle shall not leave the door open on the side of a motor

vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to

load or unload passengers.

(4) A passenger shall not enter or alight from any vehicle on a road unless

the vehicle is stationary.

188.—(1) Any person who boards a vehicle in excess of the allowable or

permitted sitting capacity of that vehicle shall be made to alight from the vehicle

and the driver shall be liable to pay the prescribed fine for overloading under

(2) A person must not drive or allow a motor vehicle to be driven on a

highway if the vehicle is carrying a load which is in excess of the manufacturers’

specifications (overloaded) for that type of vehicle or it exceeds the gross vehicle

weight for the vehicle.

(3) Where an authorised person or officer finds that a vehicle is overloaded

or exceeds the gross vehicle weight for the vehicle, he may—

(i)  direct the driver to remove part of the load so that the vehicle will not

be overloaded ;

(ii) direct that the driver drive the vehicle to the nearest place where the

excess load can be safely taken off the vehicle ; and

(iii) any person who refuses to obey a direction under sub-regulation (4)

of this regulation or continues to drive the vehicle in an overloaded condition

is guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N10,000:00

or to a term of 1 year imprisonment.

(4) No motor vehicle shall stop on any expressway except in the case of

an emergency or when signalled to stop by any appropriate authority and no

repairs or servicing of vehicles shall be carried out on the main carriageway of

any expressway.

commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a

term of 6 months imprisonment or both.

189.—(1)  No motor vehicle may enter or leave an expressway, cross the

central reserve or perform a U-turn except at locations designated for that purpose.

an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N3,000:00 or a term of 6

190.—(1)  No motor vehicle shall be parked on the central reserve of any

expressway except in the case of an emergency.

(2) A vehicle may be parked on the hard shoulders of an expressway.

3 months imprisonment or to both.

B 1605

191.—(1) Any crash on a public road shall be reported to the nearest

Police Station and Federal Road Safety Commission office or any appropriate

authority nearest to the scene of the crash.

(2) The driver or any person involved in such crash shall immediately or as

soon as practicable report to the nearest Federal Road Safety Corps office or

Police station for appropriate action.

(3) Any person who fails to comply with sub-regulation (2) of this regulation

to a term of 1 year imprisonment or both.

192.—(1)  A report of a road traffic crash shall be recorded as follows :

(a) a minor crash, where minor damage is  caused to the public road and

the vehicle and there is no injury to any person or persons

(b) a serious crash, where there is extensive damage to a public road and

injury to persons on the public road ; and

(c) a fatal crash, where the death of a person occurs regardless of damage

to property.

(2) Every member of the public has a duty to notify and invite the appropriate

authority to take all necessary measurements at the scene of a crash, record,

analyse, investigate  and make a written report as specified in Form MVA 23 set

out in Schedule 4 to these Regulations provided that where the information required

to be written down is detailed, the officer carrying out the investigation may

attach written details to the Form MVA 23 which shall be duly signed by him and

notify the appropriate authority to inspect the vehicle(s) involved in the crash.

(3)  The Officer shall after the inspection submit a written report to the

appropriate authority as in Form MVA 24 of Schedule 4 to these Regulations.

(4) Where death occurs, a duly certified medical officer shall examine the

body to determine the actual cause of death.

193. Any officer carrying out an investigation in pursuance to regulation

191 (2) before commencing an investigation on arrival at the scene of the crash

shall determine the seriousness of the crash and shall—

(a) where there is a person in need of medical attention ensure that the

person receives immediate medical attention and where necessary be taken

immediately to a hospital ;

(b) if there is an injured person, ensure that person receives immediate

medical attention and where necessary be taken immediately to a hospital ;

(c) where death occurs, remove the dead body and clear any obstruction

from the road without prejudice to any material evidence ; and

(d) place warning signs at a distance of 100 metres before and after the

crash scene and ensure traffic is controlled adequately.

Rules on use of bicycles on public roads and wearing of helmet.

194.—(1)   Subject to the provisions of regulations 98 and 99 of these

Regulations, the following general provisions shall apply to motorcycle riders

and passengers :

(a) the rider of a motorcycle shall not carry any person or object in front

of him on the motorcycle but, if the motorcycle is fitted with a seat properly

constructed for that purpose and firmly affixed to the frame, may carry not

more than one person sitting astride at the rear of the motorcycle ; and where

a side car is firmly attached to the motorcycle he may carry not more than the

number of persons for which seating capacity in such side car is provided by

the manufacturer ;

(b) where the rider of a motorcycle is the holder of a Learner’s Permit no

person shall be carried at the rear of the motorcycle unless that person is

licenced to ride a motorcycle and is being carried for the purpose of giving

instruction to the learner ;

(c) no person shall ride a motorcycle without wearing an approved safety

helmet or carry a passenger who is not wearing an approved safety helmet ;

(d)  any person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and

shall be liable to a fine of N2,000:00 or a term of 3 months imprisonment or to both ;

(e) no person shall ride a motorcycle in a negligent or dangerous manner ;

(f) where a motorcycle is registered in the commercial category, it shall

conform with the provisions of these Regulations and shall be painted with the

approved colour of the State and the Federal Capital Territory respectively ; and

(g)  a person who, when riding a motorcycle on a public road under the

influence of alcohol or drugs to such extent as to be incapable of having

proper control of the motorcycle shall be guilty of an offence and the provisions

of regulations 174, 175 and 176 shall apply.

(2) Any person who contravenes this regulation where no other penalty is

prescribed commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of

N3,000:00 or 3 months imprisonment or to both.

195.—(1) No person shall on any public road :

(a) ride a bicycle not fitted with two efficient brakes and an efficient bell

or horn or other appliance for giving audible warning of approach ;

(b) ride a bicycle of which at least 0.228 metres of the lowest part of the

rear mudguard is not painted white on the outside ;

(c) fasten an animal to a bicycle so as to obstruct, endanger or annoy any

person using the public road ;

(d) leave a bicycle standing unattended without a person to hold the animal

attached to the bicycle ;

B 1607

(e) whilst riding a bicycle hold onto any other vehicle or bicycle ;

(f)   ride a bicycle in a negligent or dangerous manner ;

(g) ride a bicycle without wearing an approved safety helmet or carry a

passenger who is not wearing an approved helmet ; or

(h)  any person in contravention of this provision commits an offence and

(2) A person who rides a bicycle on a public road recklessly or without due

care and attention, or without reasonable consideration for other road users

commits an offence and is liable to a fine of N2,000:00 or to a term of 3 months

(3) A person who, when riding a bicycle on a public road, is unfit to ride as

a result of alcohol, drugs and other psychotropic substances to such extent as to

be incapable of having proper control of the bicycle commits an offence and the

provisions of regulations 174, 175 and 176 of these Regulations shall apply.

PART  XXX—PROVISIONS   RELATING  TO  EXEMPTED  BODIES

196.—(1) Except as herein provided, no fees shall be charged—

(a) for the registration, examination and weighing of a vehicle owned by

an exempted body ;

(b) for a driver’s licence issued to a person employed to drive a motor

vehicle belonging solely to an exempted body ; and

(c) for change of ownership of a vehicle where the new owner is an

exempted body.

(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall apply where

the licence issued :

(i) did not authorise the person named therein to drive any vehicle other

than the one belonging to the exempted body and shall be so endorsed by

the Authority ; and

(ii) is to be surrendered to the Authority by the exempted body when

the person named therein is no longer employed to drive the exempted

body.

197. In this regulation, the expression “exempted body” includes—

(a) the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria ;

(b) the Government of any State of the Federation ;

(c) any Local Government ; and

(d) any person provided with diplomatic privileges and immunities under

the Diplomatic Immunities and Privileges Act, Laws of the Federation of

Nigeria, 2004 and such other persons as may be exempted under the provisions of any other written law.

Registration of commercial vehicle operators.

198.—(1) All road fleet transport   operators who engage in inter-state

city road transport services shall establish a Safety Unit and appoint a Safety

Officer as the head of the Unit who shall ensure that safety and operational

standards are maintained as prescribed in these Regulations or the Commission

from time to time..

(2) A person or Organisation shall not operate a transport company unless he

has fulfilled the necessary conditions as prescribed by the appropriate Commission

authority, and has obtained a certificate of compliance of same from the

appropriate authority which must be placed at the operator’s business headquarters

and operating terminals.

(3) Any person or organization who contravenes the provision of this

regulation shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N 100,000.00 or a term of

imprisonment of one year for first offender and be given 3 months to comply.

Subsequent offender shall in addition to the stipulated penalty have his

operation barred. A company shall not be registered as a transport company

by the Corporate Affairs Commission unless it presents to the Corporate

Affairs Commission a certificate of compliance issued by the Commission.

199.—(1) A fleet operator is any person, organisation, company,

academic institution, government department and agency who engages

in transport services with at least five vehicles in its fleet

(12)   Road transportFleet operators shall be graded into three broad

categories as follows—

(i) operators with at least 100 and above vehicles ;

(ii) operators with 26 25 to 99 vehicles ;  and

(iii) operators with less than 5 to 25 vehicles.

(23) There shall be yearly inspections and assessments of fleet operators by

inspectors and assessors authorised by the Commission to determine the

eligibility for a permit.

(4) Any person or organisation intending to operate transport services

shall first apply to the Commission for a provisional operating permit and same

shall be issued upon fulfilling the prescribed conditions and requirements. The

provisional permit shall be valid for a period of nine months after which a

certificate of compliance shall be issued to the transport operator on compliance

with prescribed standards and specifications.

(5)  There shall be inspections and assessments of fleet operators to

determine the grouping and classes of certification based on prescribed

standards and specifications.

(3 6) The Commission shall issue a yearly compliance sticker for every

vehicle in a fleet which has been inspected and certified and such compliance

sticker shall be affixed on the vehicle front windscreen.

(4 7) All vehicles certified under this regulation shall be inscribed with

emergency phone number(s) boldly written at the rear and sides of the vehicles

for the purpose of emergencies and shall have recovery vehicles and a rescue

plan for road crashes.

(58) All certified road transport operators shall maintain records of

Formatted: Justified, Right:  0.13", Line

spacing:  Multiple 1.04 li

Formatted: Indent: First line:  0" drivers, vehicles, routes plied and road crashes and their causes,

and submit same on regular basis to the Commission.

(1) A vehicle owner shall not operate a commercial vehicle without being registered with a licenced commercial transport association

or union.

(2) All commercial transport Associations or Unions shall be licenced by the Commission and shall have route identification marks as may be prescribed by

the appropriate authority from time to time.

(3) Any person or association or union that contravenes the provisions of this regulation commits an offence and shall

be liable on conviction to a fine of     N200,000 or to a term of two years

imprisonment or both in the case of an individual and dissolution in the case of

association or union.

(4) Every category of commercial vehicle shall have an operating permit

issued by the Commission which authorises that vehicle to render a specified

transport service in terms of distance or route of operations.

(5) A person shall not operate a commercial vehicle without obtaining a

Commercial Vehicle Operating Permit (CVOP) and the permit shall be renewed

annually after the payment of the prescribed fee and conditions as prescribed by

the Commission.

All licenced commercial transport associations and unions shall organize

periodic training, seminars and courses for its members and drivers and such

courses shall include defensive driving, speed limit, use of the road, number of

passengers, traffic signs, compliance with registration and pedestrian crossing.

All transport unions or associations shall have approved Code

of Ethics to ensure discipline of their members and their registered drivers.

(2) All registered commercial operators shall send all their drivers to attend

at least one refresher course in defensive driving annually.

(3) The Commission shall maintain a data base of all road transport operators

and shall issue appropriate forms for data collection, certification and registration

of operators, safety officers and all necessary operational activities as may be

required from time to time.

(4) Any transport operator or safety officer that fails to comply with the

to a fine of N3,000 or to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

PART  XXXII—USE  AND  OPERATION  OF AMBULANCE   SERVICES

203.—(1)  Any person or Organisation intending to operate Ambulance

services shall first apply to the Commission for an Ambulance Operating Permit

as prescribed in form MVA 30 of Schedule 17 to these Regulations and a Permit

shall be issued upon fulfilling the conditions and requirements for that purpose

and the payment of the prescribed fee.

(2) Upon the issuance of the operating Permit which shall be renewed

annually, an ambulance operator shall register its operational offices with the

Commission indicating all its operational routes.

(3) No person or Organisation shall be registered as an Ambulance Operator

by the Corporate Affairs Commission unless it presents to the Corporate Affairs

Commission a Permit issued by the Commission.

(4) Ambulance operators shall implement the safety policies and meet the

minimum safety standards of vehicles and drivers as approved by the Commission.

204.—(1) All Ambulances shall be painted in the colour approved by the

appropriate authority and shall have inscribed on it, phone numbers of the person

or Organisation operating the Ambulance which shall be boldly written at the

rear and sides of the Ambulance.

Continuous education of commercial drivers.

Code of ethics for transport associations and unions.

Require- ments for towing vehicles.

(2) The Commission shall organize training for ambulance drivers and

operators from time to time on the subject of emergency driving, traffic codes

and defensive driving.

(3) Operators are to maintain records of Ambulance drivers, ambulance

vehicles in their fleet and rescue operations and submit same on regular basis to

(4) Ambulance operators shall respond promptly to emergency calls to

rescue road crash victims and no ambulance shall carry passengers for hire.

205.—(1) Every ambulance shall be submitted to the appropriate authority

for examination once every six months.

(2) The Commission may enter into partnership with any person or

Organisation to operate ambulance services.

(3) All vehicles used as ambulance shall conform to requirements relating

to its construction, condition, use, accessories and other equipment as prescribed

under these Regulations or under any law.

PART  XXXIII—OPERATION   OF  TOWING  VEHICLES

206.—(1)  A person shall not drive or operate a vehicle towing another

vehicle unless he is a licenced driver licenced to drive that particular class of

vehicle and except—

(a) the length of the draw bar or tow-bar between the two vehicles exceeds

3.5 metres ;

(b) the towed vehicle is connected to the towing vehicle in such a manner

that the towed vehicle cannot be properly controlled by the towing vehicle ;

(c) the steering gear of the vehicle being towed is controlled by a person

licenced to drive the class of such vehicle,

(2) The provisions of sub-regulation (1) of this regulation shall not apply in

a case where—

(i)        the towed vehicle is hoisted so that the steerable or front wheels

are clearly off the ground while in motion ;

(ii) the device connecting the towing vehicle to the towed vehicles is such

that the towed vehicle can be properly controlled by the towing vehicle, and

(iii) the towing vehicle is moving at a speed of less than 30 km/h.

(3) No motor vehicle other than a towing vehicle shall be used as a towing

vehicle, unless a draw bar or tow-bar is placed between the two vehicles and

does not exceed 3.5 metres.

(4) The draw bar or tow bar to be used by towing vehicles be securely

attached to a hook-up device commonly referred to as under-reach or wheel-lift

and Sling-type or bar-type hook-ups shall not be allowed.

B 1612

(5) A towing vehicle specified under this regulation shall—

(i) have rear brake signals and tail lights ;

(ii) be free of loose parts, unsecured boards, hoods, broken glass, and

leaking fluids ; and

(iii) be capable to raise wheels of steering axles.

207.—(1) Any person who intends to operate commercial towing service

shall apply to the appropriate authority who shall prescribe conditions and

requirements and issue a Towing Operating Licence for the operation of such

service upon the payment of the prescribed fees.

(2) The Towing Operating Licence shall be renewed annually upon fulfilling

the prescribed conditions and payment of the prescribed fees.

208. Any person who wishes to designate his premises as a motor park

shall apply to the appropriate authority which shall approve stating out guidelines

for the operation of the motor park and issue a certificate upon payment of the

prescribed fees.

209.—(1)  A person shall not drive, ride, propel or park any vehicle or

propel, ride or leave any animal or display trade wares on any footway or pavement

provided for the use of pedestrians.

(2) In this regulation “vehicle” includes carriages, wagon, carts, bicycles,

handcarts, sledges, barrows and all other machines for the carriage of goods or

persons.

210. Where under these Regulations it is required that a vehicle or

motorcycle shall have painted or marked thereon any words, letters, figures or

symbols or to be repainted or otherwise marked from time to time, the owner of

the vehicle or motorcycle shall paint or mark the said words, letters, figures or

symbols legibly and clearly distinguishable at all time.

211.—(1) An appropriate authority may inspect any motor vehicle or trailer

with a view to ascertaining whether the provisions of the Act, these Regulations,

permit or notice issued hereunder are being complied with.

(2) Where an appropriate authority is satisfied that there is non-compliance

with any of the provisions of these Regulations, the appropriate authority may

prohibit the further use of the vehicle or trailer until there is compliance, and any

person using or permitting the use of a vehicle or trailer in contravention of any

order prohibiting its use pursuant to the Act, Regulations, permit or notice issued

hereunder commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000 in

addition to any other penalty which may be imposed.

(3) An appropriate authority may stop any vehicle to ascertain whether the

vehicle or any trailer drawn thereby is used to contravene the provisions of the

Act or any of these Regulations and may detain the vehicle or trailer until the

issue leading to the detention has been resolved.

Public Road Codes.

(4) Where it appears to an appropriate authority that a vehicle driven on a

public road is not in compliance with provisions of these Regulations or the Act,

the appropriate authority may demand the owner or driver of the vehicle to

produce the vehicle or any trailer drawn thereby at a stipulated time and place

for inspection to ascertain whether the provisions of the Act or these Regulations

are being complied with. Failure to produce the vehicle is an offence and any

person found guilty shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or 3

212. Any appropriate authority may require a vehicle to be weighed or re-

weighed as may be expedient.

213.—(1)  Any person, company, Organisation or enterprise involved in

the construction or maintenance of a public road shall provide adequate warning

signs of the ongoing construction or maintenance at the construction areas day

and night.

(2) Failure to comply with this provision is an offence and any person,

company, organisation or enterprise in contravention shall be liable on conviction

to a fine of N50,000:00 or to a term of 18 months imprisonment or to both.

214.—(1) These Regulations in so far as they relate to the licensing of a

motor vehicle or trailer shall not apply to motor vehicles exclusively designed

for use, or   plants used for the maintenance of roads or bridges, or to fire

engines or trailer pumps.

(2) The provisions of regulation 163 of these Regulations shall not apply to

a motor vehicle referred to in sub-regulation (1) of this regulation during the

time it may be engaged on the construction or maintenance of roads or bridges.

215.—(1) The provisions of these Regulations shall not apply to a registered

Government vehicle.

(2) In these Regulations, “registered government vehicle” means any motor

vehicle or trailer owned by the Federal Government and registered as a

Government vehicle under the provisions of the Road Traffic Registration of

Government Vehicles Regulations, 1958.

216.—(1)  The Commission may cause the Public Road Code and every

revised edition thereof to be printed and copies thereof to be sold to the public at

such price as may be determined from time to time.

(2) The Commission may, from time to time, revise the Public Road Code

by revoking, varying, amending or adding to the provisions thereof.

(3) Failure on the part of any person to observe any provision of the Public

Road Code, shall not of itself render the person liable to criminal proceedings of

any kind, but any such failure may be used as evidence, in any proceedings (civil or criminal), including proceedings for an offence under the Act or these

(4) In these Regulations “the Public Road Code” means the code comprising

directions for the guidance of persons using roads as may be revised from time

to time by the Commission.

217.—(1) The Commission shall regulate the placement of road furniture

and determine the shape, size and colour of road furniture and traffic signs.

(2) A person shall not carry on the business of road furniture and sign

placement or be eligible for any road furniture and sign placement contract in

Nigerian without first being certified by the Commission to carry out such

business.

(3) In the case of a State, the Director, Civil Engineering in conjunction

with any other appropriate authority may post or display road signs and effect

markings on roads and pavements.

218. Any person who fails to comply with or acts in contravention of any

condition attached to any licence or permit under these Regulations commits an

offence and is liable on conviction as provided in these Regulations.

219. Any person who commits a breach of or fails to comply with any of

the provisions of these Regulations commits an offence and, where no special

penalty is provided in the Act or in these Regulations, is liable on conviction in

respect of each offence to a fine of N2,000:00 or to imprisonment for a term not

exceeding 3 months or to both.

220. Any uniform member of the Corps and non-uniform Special Marshal

shall have power to issue a notice of offence or issue ticket electronically or

manually to a person who he reasonably believes has committed an offence

specified in these Regulations, and the offender shall pay the prescribed penalty

to an appointed bank and present the original teller to the Commission or be

charged to court as specified in Form MVA 27 of Schedule 11 to these

Power to issue notice of offence or ticket.

221.—(1)   The Commission in conjunction with any other appropriate

authority may prescribe additional precautionary measures to reduce the rate of

crashes by :

(a) prescribing additional constructional and mechanical requirements for

commercial vehicles ;

(b) prohibiting or restricting the driving of motor vehicles of any class or

description on any specified public road or part of a public road and empowering

any specified officer or other authority to impose such prohibition or restrictions ;

Power to prescribe additional precautionary measures.

Fleeing or attempting to flee from a corps member.

(c) with respect to the speed at which motor vehicles of any class or

description may be driven either generally or on any specified public road or

within any defined area or place ;

(d) prescribing precautions to be taken in the interest of the safety and

convenience of the public travelling in motor vehicles or otherwise using public

road, and providing for the periodical inspection of motor vehicles ; and

(e) prescribing anything which shall ensure the effective enforcement of

these Regulations and all other matters pertaining to or likely to enhance safety

on the public road.

222. The Commission may, from time to time, amend or revoke the

provisions of these Regulations by notice in the Gazette.

223.—(1)  Where the appropriate authority is of the opinion that it might

be unsafe to permit a particular class or type of vehicle to be used on any public

road—

(a) it may by notice prohibit the class or type of vehicle from using the

road ; and

(b) shall cause suitable warning signs to be erected on the approaches to

the road.

(2) Where the appropriate authority by notice or other warning signs,

prohibits any class of vehicles from the use of any public road under this

regulation, it shall be an offence for that class of vehicle to ply the prohibited

road and the driver of the vehicle shall be liable under these Regulations.

(3) Except in the case of an emergency, no truck, trailer, tanker or motor

vehicle shall use any road when the gross weight designation on the vehicle

exceeds the posted weight limit of the road.

224. The Commission shall provide standard guidelines on road traffic

management for all the states of the federation including the Federal Capital

Territory, Abuja.

225. Where any of the provisions of any other Road Traffic Regulations

existing in any State of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory, is

inconsistent with the provisions of these Regulations, the provisions of these

Regulations shall to the extent of the inconsistency prevail and the provisions of

that other Regulations shall be null and void.

226.—(1)   It shall be an offence for any driver of a motor vehicle to

wilfully fail or refuse to bring his vehicle to a stop or otherwise flee or attempt to

flee from a Federal Road Safety Corps member in uniform, when given visual or

audio signal to bring the vehicle to a stop.

(2) Under this regulation ‘signal’ may be by hand, voice, emergency lights

or siren.

B 1616

227. A person shall not drive or operate any vehicle over, on, or across any

pavement or road undergoing construction, or circumvent a barrier or sign placed

by any lawful authority prohibiting the use of any vehicle over or on such pavement

or road being constructed.

228. No person shall drive or cause to be driven, a vehicle on any public

road for any car race, drag race, acceleration contest, test of physical endurance,

exhibition of speed, speed competition or for the purpose of establishing a speed

record, except in an area designated or authorised for that purpose by the

229.—(1) The owner of any motor vehicle or trailer shall on demand by

the appropriate authority, give information—

(a) which is reasonably expected to be within his knowledge as to the

name, address, description and whereabouts of any person who commits or

is alleged to have committed any offence in respect of the motor vehicle or

trailer ; and

(b) regarding any occupant of the motor vehicle or trailer at the time of the

commission of the offence or alleged offence.

(2) Where the owner wilfully refuses or neglects to give the information,

he commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of N2,000:00 or

to a term of 6 months imprisonment or to both.

230.—(1) The National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004 is hereby revoked.

(2) The revocation of the Regulations specified in sub-regulation (1) of

this regulation shall not affect anything done or purported to be done under or

pursuant to that regulation.

231. In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Act” means the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act,

2007 ;

“abnormal load” is a load which by its nature is indivisible and unavoidably

exceeds the prescribed dimension of 2.8m ;

“agricultural and track laying machines” means an industrial or track

propelled vehicle which is used for the purpose of hauling produce, timber or

mineral in agricultural land, timber forest or mine and registered as such

under regulation 8 of these Regulations ;

“appropriate authority” includes the Commission, Nigerian Police Force,

Licensing Authorities, Vehicle Inspection Officers, Director, Federal Public

Roads, Director of Engineering, Ministry of Works of States, Local

Government Supervisory Councillors of Works, Security Agencies ;

“articulated vehicle” means a motor vehicle with a trailer drawn which is so

constructed and by partial super imposition attached to the motor vehicle that a

substantial part of the weight of the trailer is borne by the motor vehicle ;

Disregarding signs on roads under construction.

Prohibition of car and speed races.

Information in relation to road traffic offenders.

Revocation of the National Road Traffic Regulations, 2004.

Interpretation.

“assistant driver” means a qualified and licenced driver who acts as assistant to a driver of a school bus.

“authority” includes motor licensing authority of the States and Federal

Capital Territory, Abuja ;

“central motor registry” means National Data Base established by the

Commission, including the Motor Registry established by the States of the

Federation and, Federal Capital Territory for the purpose of these Regulations ;

“commercial vehicle” includes motorcycle for hire, a hackney carriage,

stage carriage, a prime mover, recovery vehicle, draw-bar-trailer or articulated

vehicle, buses, pick-up vans, tricycles and any motor vehicle primarily designed

for the carriage of goods and fare-paying passengers as well as vehicles for

carrying people by companies and religious bodies ;

“Commission” means the Federal Road Safety Commission.

“competent authority” includes appropriate authority and for the purposes

of Articles 3 and 6 of the International Convention on the Taxation of Foreign

Motor Vehicles, the Principal Licensing Officers as defined in these Regulations

and the Federal Road Safety Commission (Establishment) Act, 2007 ;

“corps’’ means the Federal Road Safety Corps ;

“Court’’ includes the Federal High Court or High Court of a State or the Federal

Capital Territory, magistrate or mobile court having requisite jurisdiction ;

“escort” means other smaller vehicles or persons conducting the movement

of the motor vehicle or trailers as provided in regulations 55 and 116 of these

“expressway” means any part of a public road not being a single carriage

way declared by order to be an expressway by the Federal Ministry of Works

or State Ministry of Works in the case of a State road ;

“exhaust emissions” means substances emitted into the atmosphere from

the tailpipe(s) of a motor vehicle ;

“excessive noise” means unreasonable sound emitting from the engine or

any other part of a vehicle which is such as to interfere with normal hearing

or constitute a nuisance or distraction to other road users ;

“far-side” means left opposite side ;

“mechanical workshop” includes any workshop which engages in the repairs

and maintenance of motor vehicles or motorcycles, auto-electrical, panel beating

or spray, wheel alignment and balancing workshops ;

‘mineral’ includes mineral oils and the words ‘mine’ and ‘mining’ shall be

construed accordingly.

“motor vehicle mechanic’ includes a person who engages in the repairs

and maintenance of motor vehicles, auto electrician, panel beater, etc ;

“motor vehicle dealer” means a person who engages in the sale and

distribution of motor vehicles ;

B 1618

“motorcycle” includes a motor vehicle designed to travel on two or more

wheels, where any part of the locomotive power is provided by an internal

combustion engine and includes a combination of motorcycle and side car ;

“multi-purpose vehicle” means a vehicle capable of carrying goods, persons

and livestock ;

“near side” or “right side” means the side nearest to the shoulder of the road ;

“overall length” means the overall length of a vehicle exclusive of the

starting handle, if any ;

“overall width” means the width measured between paralleled planes

passing through the extreme projecting points of a vehicle exclusive of any

driving mirror ;

“omnibus” means a vehicle capable of carrying a load of not less than 762

kilograms, constructed and designed for the sole purpose of carrying

passengers, their hand luggage and registered as such under regulation 3 of

“overhang” means the distance measured horizontally and parallel to the

longitudinal axis of the vehicle between two vertical places at right angles to

such axis the one passing through that point of the vehicle projecting

furthermost to the rear and the other passing—

(a) in the case of a motor vehicle having two axles, one of which is not a

steering wheel, through the centre of the axle ;

(b) in the case of a motor vehicle having three axles—

(i) where the front axle is the only steering axle, through a point 102

millimetres in the rear of the centre of the axle; a straight line joining the

centre of the rear and middle axles ; and

(ii) where the rear axle is the only steering axle, through the centre

point of the middle axles ;

(c) in the case of a motor vehicle (whether having two or three axles)

where all the axles are steering axles, and in the case of a motor vehicle

having four or more axles, through a point situated on the longitudinal axis of

the vehicle and such that a line drawn from it at right angle to that axis will

pass through the centre of the minimum turning circle of the vehicle ;

“pedestrian” means any person using a road on foot for the purpose of

passage, but does not include a person propelling a vehicle ;

“pedestrian crossing” means a section of the public road clearly defined by

conspicuous marking and designated to be a pedestrian crossing by the

appropriate authority ;

“ principal licensing officer” means an officer appointed as such in the

States, the Federal Capital Territory Abuja as well as the Corps Marshall and

Chief Executive of the Federal Road Safety Corps ;

B 1619

“public road” means any road, street or thoroughfare or any other place

(whether a thoroughfare or not) which is commonly used by the public or

any section thereof or to which the public or any section thereof has a right

of access, and includes—

(a) the side of any such road, street or thoroughfare ;

(b) any bridge, ferry or drift traversed by any such road, street,

thoroughfare ; and

(c) any other work or object forming part of or connected with or

belonging to such road, street or thoroughfare.

“railway level crossing” means a place where a public or private road

crosses a railway on the level of the railway ;

“road users” means a driver of vehicle of every description, pedestrians

and animals using a road ;

“vehicle” means any motor car, buses, lorries, trucks, trailers, wagon,

carriage, cart, bicycles, barrows, sledges   or other conveyance (except a

baby carriage or perambulator) which is used for the transportation of

passengers, animals, goods or other loads ;

“vehicle inspection officer” includes the Director, Road Traffic Services

in the States and the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and any officer appointed

to assist him in the discharge of his functions ;

“road marshal” includes the Corps Marshal, Chief Executive of the Corps,

officers and men of the Corps ;

“registration book” means the registration book issued under regulation 10

of these Regulations ;

“Removed vehicle” means a vehicle removed pursuant to regulation 177 of

“Removed Vehicle Park” means places where vehicles removed are kept

pursuant to regulation 177 of these Regulations ;

“School bus” means a motor vehicle that takes students or pupils to and

from school or on school-related trips ;

“School Bus driver” means a qualified and licenced driver who acts as a

driver of a school bus ;

“School bus operator” means an entrepreneur who acquires an approved

school bus type and engages in the business of transporting students or pupils

to and from school ;

“spare parts dealer” means person who engages in the sale and distribution

of motor vehicle spare parts ;

“state” means any State of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Federal

Capital Territory

“superload” means load which by its nature is indivisible and can cause

damage to the road structure or road furniture as provided in regulation 217

“taxi” means any motor vehicle designed or constructed to carry not more

than seven persons, used or intended to be used for carrying passengers for

hire or reward under a contract expressed or implied for the use of the vehicle

as  a whole at or for a fixed or agreed rate or sum ;

“tractor” means a vehicle which is constructed and used on a public road solely

for haulage and not for the purpose of carrying or having super-imposed upon it

any load except such as may be necessary for the propulsion of equipment ;

“trade licence” means licence issued to a dealer who engages in sales or

distribution of vehicles spare parts and also includes licences issued to

mechanical workshops ;

“traffic sign” means a sign for regulating the movement of traffic which

under these Regulations are erected, placed or marked on or near a road ;

“traffic signal” means a traffic sign which, for the purpose of regulating

the movement of traffic, gives varying signals from time to time ;

“trailer” means a vehicle drawn by any motor vehicle but does not include

a side-car attached to a motorcycle or plant and machinery used for the

construction or maintenance of roads and bridges ;

“Vehicle” includes anything attached to the vehicles and contents ;

“vehicle” in Parts II and III of these Regulations include all categories

detailed in regulation 8 of these Regulations ; and

“width” in relation to a tyre means the maximum thickness of the tyre

from one side of the tyre to the other, measured parallel to the axle as specified

on the tyre by the manufacturer ;

232. These Regulations may be cited as the National Road Traffic

Regulations, 2012.

FEDERAL ROAD SAFETY COMMISSION

(ESTABLISHMENT) ACT, 2007

NATIONAL ROAD

TRAFFIC REGULATIONS,

2012

SCHEDULE S

SCHEDULE 1                        ( Regulation 2 (1) )

FORM MVA 1

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

VEHICLE REGISTRATION BOOK

Registration Number

INSTRUCTION

1. This book is a permanent record of Motor Vehicle and must be carried

on the vehicle.

2. This book will be issued when an application on the prescribed forms is

submitted for initial registration and licensing.

3. Vehicle Licences will be issued for a period of 12 months with effect

from the 1st day of the month of issue or the month following the expiry date of

a current licence.

4. A motor vehicle should be re-licenced before the expiry date. Licensces

may be renewed by any other motor licensing authority in Nigeria, to whom this

book must be produced with a current certificate of insurance. The payment of

the fees will be recorded by the Motor Licensing Authority in this book.

5. A vehicle will be registered on one of the following categories :

(i) Motorcycle, private or commercial ;

(ii) Motorcycle with three wheels or side car ;

(iii) Private motor vehicle ;

(iv) Trailer ;

(v) Taxi (not more than 7 persons including the driver) ;

(vi) Private hire car driven by the hirer or the owner’s driver; commercial

vehicle (goods only but including person who are servants of the owner

whist employed on the vehicle) ;

(vii) Commercial vehicle (goods only but including persons who are servant

of owner whist employed on the vehicle) ;

(viii) Stage carriage for not less than eight and more than fifteen persons

(ix) Stage carriage for over fifteen persons including the driver ;

(x) Omnibus ;

(xi) Private omnibus used for the free conveyance of employees ;

(xii) Agricultural machine ;

(xiii) Tractor ;

(xiv) Vehicle exclusively designed for use, or plant or machinery used for

the construction or maintenance of roads or bridges ;

(xv) Fire engine or trailer pump.

B 1627

6. A combined licence will be issued when a vehicle is registered as a

commercial and taxi/carriage for 8-15 persons/stage carriage for over 15 persons/

7. When the vehicle owner wishes to change a registered category, an

application should be submitted, on the prescribed form with the prescribed fees

for the new category, together with the existing licence and this book, to any

Licensing Authority in Nigeria who will then record the change and forward the

prescribed form to the registration Authority with whom the vehicle was originally

registered.

8. A refund will be made for any un-expired complete months of existing

licence on application, and on surrender of the un-expired licence to the Motor

Vehicle Licensing Authority which issued the un-expired licence.

9. The certificate of road worthiness for all vehicles is to be carried in this

10. Subject to the warning on the inside front cover of this book, whenever

there is a change of ownership THIS  BOOK  MUST  BE TRANSFERRED TO  THE  OWNER

of the vehicle who must submit the book to any Registration Authority together

with ;

(a) An application on the prescribed form ;

(b) A letter from the previous owner authorizing the change ;

(c) A stamped receipt for the purchase price or a letter explaining how the

transfer of ownership ; and

(d) The prescribed fee ;

The Motor Licensing Authority to whom this book is submitted will record the

details of the new owner in the appropriate part of this book.

11. Whenever there is any change in the construction of a vehicle exceeding

10 tones gross weight or any construction which affects the particulars on

pages 3 and 4 of this book or the class (e.g. private to hackney, goods to private

etc.) or if not already so licenced, the desire to draw a trailer, an application on

the prescribed form must be submitted with this book to any Licensing Authority

in Nigeria who will record the details of such a change or changes in this book

and issue the vehicle with a new permit where applicable. If the alteration made

increases the amount of licence fee payable the amount of additional fee must be

paid at the time of application.

12. Conditions for the issue of permit for vehicles exceeding 10 tones

gross weight to ply restricted roads—

B 1628

(i) A valid vehicle licence must be held for the vehicle ;

(ii) A list of restricted truck roads A & B for the time being in force as

supplied by Licensing Authority must be strictly adhered to ;

(iii) This permit will be cancelled if the construction of vehicle exceeding

10 tones gross weight is altered ;

(iv) This permit will be subject to such special restrictions as may be

issued on the use of roads in the wet season.

13. The various forms mentioned in this book may be obtained from the

Motor Licensing Authority to whom an application for a particular transaction is

to be forwarded.

14. The loss of this book should be reported immediately by submitting an

application for replacement on the prescribed form to any Motor Licensing

15. When the vehicle is permanently taken off the road, this book must be

surrendered to any Motor Licensing Authority in Nigeria for transmission to the

Registration Authority.

Warning :

1. Any person making unauthorised entries or alterations or wilfully

destroying or defacing any entry in this book, will be liable to a fine of up to

twice the annual licence fee applicable for the vehicle or imprisonment for six

months or both.

2. The instructions in the book are issued for the guidance of all concerned.

Failure to comply is an offence under the National Road Traffic Regulations 2012.

3. The person in whose name a vehicle is registered may or may not be the

legal owner of the vehicle. Prospective purchasers are warned, therefore, that

this Registration Book is not proof of legal ownership.

EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note does not form part of these Regulations but is intended to

explain its purport)

These Regulations seeks to revoke the National Road Traffic Regulations,

2004 and to provide for an effective and comprehensive legal and institutional

framework for road safety including provisions for registration and licencing of

vehicles, establishment and regulation of driving schools, vehicle identification

numbers, learner’s permit and driver’s licence, drivers and conductors registration

and badges, taxis, stage carriages, omnibuses and motorcycles for hire, use of school

buses, speed limits, use of sirens, traffic signs and trafficators, road crossing, parking

of vehicles, driving and general duties of driver of vehicles or passengers on public

roads, hindering or obstructing traffic on public road, damage to public road,

pedestrian crossing, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, special

provisions relating to expressway, reporting of road crashes, motorcycle and bicycles

on public roads, provisions relating to exempted bodies and operators of transport

services, operation of ambulance services, towing vehicles and miscellaneous motor

traffic regulations to ensure road safety.

## Speed Limits

SPEED LIMITS

153.    Use of emergency vehicles

154.    Persons authorised to use siren, flashers and beacons

155.    Obstruction of vehicles using sirens, flashers and beacon light

156.    Traffic signs, signals and notices on public roads

Application for registration of vehicles.

Registration and assignment of number plates and identification marks.

Change of vehicle category.

with the axle weight or any of its axle exceeding 10 tonnes or tandem axles exceeding 16 tonnes gross weight, shall be accompanied by a permission in

state other than the one in which the change of category is being sought, the change of category form must be accompanied by a certificate of clearance

(2) The Authority shall approve as it deems fit and the vehicle shall be so registered on the payment of the prescribed fee.

Categories of registration of vehicles.

(a) the owner of such a vehicle shall inform the appropriate authority in writing ;

Display of vehicle licence.

of—

Replacement of defaced or lost licence.

Training instructors.

B otherwise with the provisions set out in figures 1-11 of Schedule 5 to these

motorcycle ;

a motor vehicle of less than   three   tonnes

(f) Class F        —                agricultural machines and tractors ;

Renewal of driver’s licence.

Regulations, and becomes aware that he has become disqualified from holding such licence or permit, shall forthwith cease to drive any vehicle.

(b) the holder of a learner’s permit ;

there shall be securely affixed at the front and back of the vehicle, plates displaying

Loss or stolen driver’s licence.

Replace- ment of lost or stolen licence.

Report of convictions to the central motor registry. Suspension of drivers licence.

Restriction on the use of foreign driving

issued and when, in the case of— Issuance of

badges for drivers and conductors of stage carriage and omnibus.

Use and

construction

of omnibus.

hire. Smoking, eating or drinking while driving.

their duty ; Taxis driver not to refuse to be hired without reasonable excuse.

Passenger manifest.

Permit for abnormal or Superdimensional loads.

Aid Boxes,

Fire extinguishers, etc.

Windscreen wipers.

Persons exempted from obeying traffic signs and signal.

Rules on driving on public roads

entering or crossing or attempting to pass any traffic travelling in the same.

direction, shall not otherwise than by reason of an enforced stoppage or owing

B 1595

B 1597

of the front compartment of the vehicle, the driver or person in control of such

Protruding or tailing loads.

Maximum hours of driving a vehicle shall allow the television to be switched off while the vehicle is in

or

the repairs.

Driving under the influence of intoxicating liquor yield to a pedestrian crossing the road within a pedestrian crossing when the

176. Where a person without reasonable excuse refuses to subject himself

to the tests as provided under this regulation, he commits an offence and liable on

(a) provide and maintain removed vehicle parks where vehicles removed

pursuant to these Regulations are parked ;

Removal of vehicles from public roads.

Nigeria, 2004 and such other persons as may be exempted under the provisions

of any other written law.

PART  XXXI—SPECIAL  PROVISIONS   RELATING   TO  OPERATORS   OF TRANSPORT   SERVICES

Formatted: Indent: First line:  0" drivers, vehicles, routes plied and road crashes and

their causes, and submit same on regular basis to the Commission.

200.—(1) A vehicle owner shall not operate a commercial vehicle without being registered with a licenced commercial transport

(2) All commercial transport Associations or Unions shall be licenced by the Commission and shall have route identification marks

as may be prescribed by the appropriate authority from time to time.

201. All licenced commercial transport associations and unions shall organize

202.—(1)  All transport unions or associations shall have approved Code

any kind, but any such failure may be used as evidence, in any proceedings (civil

B 1614

or criminal), including proceedings for an offence under the Act or these

Disregarding signs on roads under construction. Prohibition of car and speed races.

“assistant driver” means a qualified and licenced driver who acts as assistant

to a driver of a school bus.

B 1620

B 1626

SCHEDULE 12                    (Regulation 134 (b))

WARNING DANGER LABEL

B 1699

PROVISIONS RELATING TO DANGER LABELS

1. Label Nos. 1,2A, 2B, 2C, 3, 4, 4A, 5, 6A, 6B and 6C shall be in the form

of a square 10cm side standing on a corner; they shall have a block line 5mm in

the edge and running parallel to it. Labels to be affixed to fixed tanks (tank-

vehicle and tank-trailers) shall be of not less than 30cm side.

2. Labels Nos. 7, 8 and 9 shall be rectangular, of standard format A5 (146

x 210mm). For packages. These dimensions may be reduced to a format not less

than A7 (74 x 105mm).

3. An Inscription in figures or letters, concerning the nature of the danger

may be placed on the lower part of the labels.

(i) Danger labels, where they are required under the provisions of this An-

nex, must be stuck on packages and fixed tanks or affixed in some other

suitable manner. Only where the state of the outside of a package does not

permit this should labels be stuck on cards or labels securely attached to the

package. On outer packaging and on fixed tanks, indelible danger markings

corresponding exactly to the prescribed models may be used instead of labels.

(ii) Where a package is required to bear two labels of the same model the

labels shall be affixed in the manner indicated hereafter.

(iii) It is the sender's duty to affix the labels to backages and, where appro-

priate, to affix tanks and contains.

1. EXPLANATION  OF  SYMBOLS

The danger labels prescribed for substances and articles of Classes 1-8

(see annexed plate) have the following meaning :

No. 1 (black bomb on orange ground) : liable to explosion :

No. 2A (black bomb on red ground) : danger of the (inflammable liquids)

:No. 23 (black flame on ground of equidistant alternate and white vertical stripes)

danger of fire (inflammable solids).

No. 2C  (black flame on white grounds, lower triangle liable red) : sub-

stance liable to spontaneous ignition.

No. 2D (black flame on blue ground) : danger of emission of inflammable

gases on contact with water,

No. 3 (flame over a circle, on yellow ground) : oxidizing substances or

organic peroxide,

B 1700

No. 4 (St. Andrew's Cross on ear on corn black on white ground) : harmful

substance, to be kept apart from foodstuffs in vehicles and at loading, unloading

or trans loading points,

No. 5 (Liquid dripping from a test-tube on to a plate and from another test-

tube on to a hand. Black white ground lower triangle liable black with a white

border) : corrosive substance,

No. 6   (stylized trefoil inscription RADIOACTIVE, a vertical stripe the

lower half with following text contents Activity symbol and descriptions black on

white ground vertical stripe red),

Radioactive substance in packages of Category 1. WHITE in the event of dam-

age to the packages danger to health by ingestion or inhabitation of or contact

with spilled contents,

No. 6B (like the foregoing but with two vertical stripes in the lower half and

the following text Content Activity Transport index symbol and inscriptions black

upper half of ground yellow, lower half of ground white vertical stripes red

radioactive substance in packages of Category II. YELLOW packages to be kept

away from packages containing developed radiographic or photographic plate or

films, in the event of damage to packages, danger to health to ingestion or inha-

lation or contact with spilled content, and risk of external irradiation at a distance.

Prescribed in schedule 5 to 12 as appropriate in marginal 3655 (1), (2) and N.6C

(like the foregoing, but with three vertical stripes in the lower half) radioactive

substance in package of category III YELOW: packages to be kept away from

packages containing underdeveloped radiographic or photographic plates or films;

in the event of damage to packages danger to health, by ingestion, or inhalation

of, or contest with, spilled contents, and risk of external tradition at a distance;

No. 7 (Open black umbrella on white ground) : keep dry.

No. 8 (two black arrows on white ground this side up label to be affixed, with

arrows pointing upwards on two opposite side of the package).

B 1701

SCHEDULE 13                       (Regulation 119 (7))

SPECIFICATIONS OF FIRE EXTINGUISHER

TO BE CARRIED BY DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF VEHICLES

Every extinguisher shall have the following specifications :

(i) It shall be the ABC Dry- Chemical Powder type and Multipurpose risk

application for classes A, B, & C fires.

(ii) It shall be portable.

(iii) It shall be simple to operate.

(iv) It shall be refillable and rechargeable.

(v) It shall be environment friendly to the Ozone layer of the atmosphere and

non-toxic.

(vi) It shall be stored pressure type.

(vii) It shall have safety pressure gauge ; and

(viii) It shall have reflective (luminous) bracket, neck, ring, belt and hose

holder.

(ix) It shall be an unexpired one.

B 1702

SCHEDULE 14                             (Regulation 40)

ROAD CHARGES

1.  Change of Ownership

(i) Vehicle

(ii) Motorcycle

2. Registration Fee

(i) Vehicle below N1 million

(ii) Tippers, Trucks, Trailers, Buses above N1 million

(iii) Cars over N 1 million

3.  Proof of Ownership Certificate

4.  Vehicle Licence

(i) Vehicle with capacity of below 1.6 litres

(ii) Vehicle with capacity of below 1.6 -2 litres

(iii) With capacity of below 2.1-3 litres

(iv) Vehicle with capacity of below 3.1 litres and above

(v) Tippers and Lorries

(vi) Tankers and Trailers

(vii) 16 tyres trailers

(viii) Tractors and bulldozers

(ix) Motorcycle private

(x) Motorcycle commercial

5.  Road Worthiness

(i) Cars and Mini buses

(ii) Luxurious buses

(iii) Lorries, tippers, articulated vehicles (commercial vehicles to be tested every

six months) private vehicles, one year.

6.  Request for Information

7.  Motor Vehicle Dealer’s Licence

(i) Dealer’s permit/licence

(iii) Registration

8.  Driving Licence

(i) Learner’s permit

(ii) Driver’s Licence

B 1703

9.  Replacements

(i) Loss of number plate

(ii) Loss of vehicle licence

(iii) Loss of driving licence

10. Vehicle Registration Booklet

11. Number Plates

(i) Standard motor vehicle

(ii) Standard motorcycle

(iii) Articulated

12. Special Number Plates

(i) Out of series

(ii) Out of series with special features

(iii) Fancy

(iv) Reservation

(v) Special Number

(vi) Certificate of Proof of Ownership

13. Hackney carriage

(i) Taxi cab

(ii) Car hire service

(iii) Kabukabu

(iv) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 1 person but not more than 21

(v) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 21 persons but less than 40

(vi) Any vehicle with capacity to carry more than 40 persons but less than 50

(vii) Any vehicle with capacity to carry 50 persons and above.

(viii) Commercial vehicles for goods.

(a) Tankers

(b) Vehicle for goods other than tipper but more than 3 tons

(ix) Articulated Vehicles

(b) Tippers

(c) Trailers

(x) Vehicle of inter-state carriage

(xi) Company’s staff bus with 23 seats

B 1704

(xii) Miscellaneous

(a) Hackney carriage

(b) Stage Carriage

(c) Commercial vehicles

(d) Articulated vehicles

All road charges are to be determined and published from time to time by Joint

Tax Board (JTB).

B 1705

SCHEDULE 15            (Regulations 55 and 145)

FORM MVA 29

Permissible Maximum Weight for Motor Vehicles

Vehicle Weights

The permissible maximum weight for various categories of heavy vehicles which

may be operated on a Federal highway is as specified hereunder, that is—

A. For motor vehicles and trailers in each case not forming part of an articulated

vehicle, the following classes of such vehicles are permitted—-

Classes of vehicle                                                                    Permissible gross

weight  tonnes

(a) Two-axled vehicles—

(i) Where the distance between the axles is less than 2.65 metres         14

(ii) Where the distance between the axle is at least 2.65 metres            16

(b) Three axled vehicles—

Their weight shall not exceed 16 260 kilograms except as specified below :

(i) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at

least 3 metres.                                                                                             18

(ii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is

at least 3.2 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 130

kilograms.

20

(iii) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle

is at least 3.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 130

kilograms.                                                                                                    20

(iv) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle

is at least 3.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8 640

kilograms.                                                                                                    22

(v) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle is at least

4.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms.

22

(vi) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost

axle is at least 4.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than

9,400 kilograms.                                                                                           24

(vii) Where the distance between the foremost and the rearmost axle is at

least 5.1 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,400

kilograms.                                                                                                    24

(c) Vehicles with four or more axles, their weight shall not exceed 18,290

kilograms except in a case below, where the weight opposite that case shall

apply—

B 1706

(i) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is

at least 3.7 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than

8 640 kilograms.                                                                                                             20

(ii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

4.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms.                  22

(iii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

4.7 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 8,640 kilograms                   24

(iv) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

5 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                     24

(v) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

5.6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                  26

(vi) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

6 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                     26

(vii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

5.9 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,150 kilograms.                  28

(viii) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

6 .3 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                  28

(ix) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

6.3 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,400 kilograms.                  30

(x) Where the distance between the foremost and rearmost axle is at least

6.4 metres and the maximum axle weight is not more than 9,660 kilograms.                  30

B.      For articulated vehicles, the following class of vehicles are permitted—

Class of articulated vehicles        Inner axle spacing in meter              Gross weight tons

(a) Two-axled motor vehicle with—

(i) 1 axled trailer less than 2.1 20

(ii) 1 axled trailer at least 2.1 22

(iii) 1 axled trailer at least 3.1 24

(iv) 2 or more axled trailer less than 2.9 24

(v) 2 or more axled trailer at least 2.9 26

(vi) 2 or more axled trailer at least 3.1 28

(vii) 2 or more axled trailer at least 3.6 30

(viii) 2 or more axled trailer at least 4.2 32

(b) Three or more axled motor vehicle with—

(i) 1 axled trailer less than 2 22

(ii) 1 axled trailer at least 2 24

(iii) 1 axled trailer at least 2.7 26

(iv) 1 axled trailer at least 3 28 B 1707

(v) 1 axled trailer                                         at least 4                                 30

(vi) 1 axled trailer                                     at least 4.4                                 32

(vii) 2 or more axled trailer                       less than 2                                 24

(viii) 2 or more axled trailer                         at least 2                                 26

(ix) 2 or more axled trailer                        at least 2.3                                 28

(x) 2 or more axled trailer                          at least 3.2                                 30

(xi) 2 or more axled trailer                           at least 4                                 32

C.          Maximum weight for two closely-spaced axles—

Distance between axles metres                                    Axle weight tons

less than 1.02

11

at least 1.02

16

at least 1.05

17

at least 1.2

18

at least 1.35

18.5

at least 1.5

19

at least 1.85

D.

Maximum weight for three closely-spaced axles—

Distance between outer axles metres

Axle weight tons

less than 1.4

3.66

at least 1.4

4

6

at least 2

6.51

at least 2.55

7

at least 3.15

7.51

Maximum Weights for Closely-Spaced Axles

Tow closely-Spaced Axles

Distance between Axles

Metres

less than

At least

Permissible Combined

Weight

tons

1.0

1.02

1.05

1.2

1.35

1.5

1.85

B 1708

Three Closely-Spaced Axles

Distance between Enter Axles

Permissible axle

1.4

2

6.5

2.55

3.15

7.5

B 1709

SCHEDULE 16

(Regulation 123)

REFLECTIVE STICKERS FOR VEHICLES

Red alternating tape with silver which shall be 101.60 mm (4 inches) in width and

305 mm (12 inches) in length.

CAR REAR

B 1710

B 1711

TRUCK REAR

B 1712

Rear : The rear part of the body should have at both its upper and lower

corner positions, two length of reflective tape 250 mm minimum at 90 degrees.

The placement of tape should allow for a space of 200 mm at least between

the reflective tape positions and the mandatory stop light.

B 1713

## Registration of Vehicles

registration of vehicles

3.    Registration and assignment of number plates and identification marks

4.    Change of vehicle category

5.    Out of series special number registration

6.    Transfer of out of series or fancy number plates

7.    Registration of vehicle

8.    Categories of registration of vehicles

9.    Ascertainment of weight before registration

10.    Registration book

11.    Notification of change of vehicle category

12.    Change of vehicle ownership

13.    Change of vehicle colour

14.    Replacement of a vehicle engine

15.    Vehicle lay-off certificate

16.    Procedure for destroyed vehicles

17.    The role of appropriate authority

18.    Storage and provision of vehicle particulars

19.    Unauthorised entry in the registration book

20.    Withdrawal of registration

21.    Appeal

PART  III—LICENCES FOR VEHICLES

22.    Issuance of vehicle licence

23.    Power to refuse registration in certain cases

24.    Appeal

B 1520

25.    Refund of portion of vehicle licence fee paid

26.    Display of vehicle licence

27.    Replacement of defaced or lost licence

28.    Change of licence upon change of ownership

29.    Licence or change of vehicle classification

30.    Special trade licence

31.    Trade identification number or mark

32.    Appeals

PART  V—ESTABLISHMENT  AND  REGULATION   OF  DRIVING  SCHOOLS

33.    Establishment and registration of driving schools

34.    Instructor’s permit

35.    Training instructors

36.    Vehicle Identification Number Plates

37.    Display of number plates

38.    Vehicle identification Tag

39.    Vehicle identification number plate figures

40.    Road charges

41.    Proof of ownership certificate

PART  VII—LEARNER’S   PERMIT  AND  DRIVER’S  LICENCE

42.    Application for Learner’s Permit

43.    Forged permit

44.    Classes of licence

45.    Application for a fresh drivers’ licence

46.    Renewal of driver’s licence

47.    Disqualification from holding licence or permit

48.    Invalid permits and licences

49.    Photograph of applicant for driver’s licence

50.    Driving test

51.    Change of class or category of driving licence

52.    Certification of vision acuity and general medical fitness

53.    Form of driver’s licence

54.    Production of driver’s licence

55.    Grant of special permit

56.    Conduct of driving tests

B 1521

57.    Certificate of competence for commercial drivers

58.    Convoy driver’s licence

59.    Application of driving licence

60.    Certificate of group licence

61.    Learner’s Sign

62.    Replacement of defaced or illegible licence

63.    Loss or stolen driver’s licence

64.    Replacement of lost or stolen licence

65.    Report of convictions to the Central Motor Registry

66.    Suspension of drivers licence

67.    Possession of original copy of licence by driver

68.    Driving while licence is suspended or revoked

69.    Drivers re-testing

70.    Change of driver’s name and address

71.    Unlawful use of licence

72.    Permitting an unlicenced person to operate a vehicle.

73.    Central Data Base

74.    Use of valid licence

75.    Documents for vehicles taken for use outside Nigeria

76.    Documents for drivers going outside Nigeria

77.    International transit permits for visitors vehicles

78.    Surrender of International Circulation Permit or International Transit

permit

79.    Register of permit

80.    Registration mark and nationality sign

81.    Exemption for visitors with foreign driving permits

82.    Restriction on the use of foreign driving licence

PART IX—DRIVERS AND CONDUCTORS REGISTRATION AND BADGES

83.    Issuance of badges for drivers and conductors of stage carriage and

omnibus

84.    Registration of conductors

85.    Exemption from the use of badges

86.    Use of badges

87.    Surrender of badges

B 1522

88.    Conditions for licensing

89.    Use and construction of taxis

90.    Taxi roof light

91.    Use and construction of stage carriages

92.    Use and construction of omnibus

93.    Number of passengers to be carried

94.    Use and construction of multi-purpose vehicles

95.    Carriage of persons on goods carrying vehicle

96.    Private use of stage carriage or omnibus

97.    Route restriction

98.    Use and construction of motorcycles

99.    Use and construction of motorcycle with three wheels

100.    Power to fix fares

101.    Table of fares and timetable to be carried and exhibited

102.    Prohibition of noise

103.    Smoking, eating or drinking while driving

104.    Taxis for hire

105.    Taxi driver not to refuse to be hired without reasonable excuse

106.    Procedure regarding property left in vehicle

107.    Person travelling in stage carriage or omnibus

108.    Passenger Manifest

109.     Identification of school buses

110.    Qualification for School bus driver and assistant school bus driver

111.    Procedure for selecting a driver and an assistant driver of a school bus

112.    School bus Operator’s Permit

113.    Insurance cover for school bus and occupants

114.    Safety unit

115.    Penalty for contravention

PART XII—USE   AND CONSTRUCTION

116.    General conditions for use of motor vehicles

117.    Overloading

118.    Permit for abnormal or super-dimensional loads

119.    Tyres, First Aid Boxes, Fire extinguishers, etc

B 1523

120.    Braking system

121.    Silencers and exhaust pipes

122.    Lighting system

123.    Reflective stickers for vehicles

124.    Horns

125.    Driving mirrors

126.    Safety belts and child safety seats

127.    Wheel alignment

128.    Vehicle steering and prohibition of right hand drive

129.    Springs

130.    Laminated windscreen and safety glass

131.    Windscreen wipers

132.    Mudguards

133.    Speedometers

134.    Spirit tankers

135.    Motorcycle leg guards

136.    Exemption and issue of permits for special freight or load

137.    Conditions for use of trailer

138.    Illuminated indicators

139.    Insurance of vehicles

140.    Examination to ascertain condition of vehicles

141.    Examination of commercial and private vehicles

142.    Roadworthiness certificate.

143.    Notice of defects of unroadworthy vehicle

144.    Off the Road notice

145.    Vehicles not exceeding thirty-two tonnes gross weight

146.    Motor vehicles to have reflex reflectors

147.    Trailers to be equipped with reflectors

148.    Ascertainment of weight

149.    Heavy goods vehicle

150.    Restriction on driving or parking of heavy goods vehicle

151.    Transportation of hazardous goods

152.    Speed limit

B 1524

Ascertainment

of weight

before

B 1534

Notification

of change of

ownership.

colour.

Replacement

of a vehicle

engine.

Vehicle lay-

off

Procedure

destroyed

vehicles.

B 1536

The role of

appropriate

Storage and

provision of

particulars.

Unauthorised

entry in the

Withdrawal

of

Issuance of

Power to

refuse

in certain

cases.

Refund of

portion of

licence fee

paid.

B 1538

Display of

of defaced or

lost licence.

trade licence shall be issued for use in respect of any vehicle except—

licence upon

Licence or

classification.

Special trade

Trade

number or

mark.

Establishment

of driving

schools.

Instructor’s

permit.

number plate

figures.

Road charges.

Proof of

ownership

B 1546

for learner’s

Forged

Classes of

for a fresh

drivers’

B 1548

Disqualifi-

cation from

holding

B 1550

Invalid

permits and

licences.

Photograph

of applicant

for driver’s

Driving test.

class or

category of

driving

Certification

of vision

acuity and

general

medical

fitness.

Form of

Production

of driver’s

Grant of

Conduct of

driving tests.

Certificate of

competence

commercial

drivers.

Convoy

for driving

group

Learner’s

sign.

B 1554

illegible

Loss or

stolen

Replace-

ment of lost

or stolen

Report of

convictions

to the central

motor

registry.

Suspension

of drivers

Possession

of original

copy of

licence by

driver.

while licence

is suspended

or revoked.

Drivers re-

testing.

name and

address.

Unlawful use

of licence.

Permitting an

unlicenced

person to

operate a

Central data

base.

Use of valid

B 1558

Documents

for vehicles

taken for use

outside

for drivers

going outside

International

transit

permits for

visitors

Surrender of

circulation

permit or

B 1560

Register of

mark and

nationality

Exemption

for visitors

with foreign

permits.

Restriction

on the use of

foreign

badges for

drivers and

conductors

of stage

carriage and

conductors.

from the use

of badges.

Use of

badges.

B 1562

Conditions

for licensing.

of taxis.

Taxi roof

light.

carriages.

B 1564

Number of

passengers

to be carried.

B 1566

of multi-

purpose

Carriage of

persons on

goods

carrying

Private use

carriage or

Route

restriction.

motorcycles.

motorcycle

with three

wheels.

Power to fix

fares.

Table of

fares and

timetable to

be carried

exhibited.

Prohibition

of noise.

Smoking,

eating or

drinking

while

driving.

Taxis driver

not to refuse

to be hired

without

reasonable

excuse.

regarding

property left

in vehicle.

Person

travelling in

stage carriage

or omnibus.

B 1570

of school

buses.

Qualification

for School

bus driver

and assistant

school bus

B 1572

for selecting

a driver and

an assistant

driver of a

school bus.

Operator’s

Insurance

cover for

occupants.

Safety unit.

Penalty for

contravention.

for use of

Overloading.

B 1574

Permit for

abnormal or

Super-

dimensional

loads.

Fire

extinguishers,

etc.

Braking

system.

Silencers and

exhaust

pipes.

Lighting

Reflective

stickers for

Horns.

mirrors.

Safety belts

and child

safety seats.

B 1580

Wheel

alignment.

steering and

of right

hand drive.

Springs.

Laminated

and safety

glass.

Mudguards.

Speedo-

meters.

Spirit

tankers.

leg guards.

and issue of

freight or

load.

B 1582

trailer.

Illuminated

indicators.

Insurance of

Examination

to ascertain

condition of

B 1584

and private

Road-

worthiness

Notice of

defects of

unroadworthy

Off the Road

notice.

Vehicles not

exceeding

thirty two

tonnes gross

vehicles to

have reflex

reflectors.

Trailers to

be equipped

with

B 1586

Ascertain-

ment of

Heavy goods

on driving or

parking of

B 1588

Transporta-

tion of

hazardous

goods.

emergency

Persons

authorised to

use siren,

flashers and

beacons.

Obstruction

of vehicles

using sirens,

beacon light.

B 1590

Traffic signs,

signals and

notices on

public roads.

Destruction

of traffic

signs and

signals.

exempted

from

obeying

traffic signs

and signal.

Usage of

trafficators.

Compulsory

Rules on

driving on

entering or crossing or attempting to pass any traffic travelling in the same

B 1593

Rules for

stopping of

vehicles on

railway

crossings,

B 1594

Removal of

vehicles for

wrongful

stopping.

Vehicles

approaching

crossings.

communi-

cation

devices

Driving a

vehicle on a

public road

in a

dangerous or

reckless

B 1596

Protruding

or tailing

Preaching or

hawking in

B 1598

Maximum

hours of

Hindering or

obstructing

traffic on

the repairs

Damage to

road and

road fittings.

the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping to

Compliance

with traffic

signals at

pedestrians

B 1600

under the

influence of

intoxicating

liquor.

Prescribed

alcohol

limit.

refusal to be

subjected to

tests.

from public

roads.

Custody fees

Provisions

relating to

removed

park.

B 1602

reclaiming

release of

Failure to

reclaim

Permissible

dimensions

and weight

on the

of animals

Agricultural

machines on

Loading, off-

loading or

stoppage on

the

B 1604

Excess

and excess

U-turns on

Parking on

Reporting of

road crashes.

investigating

recording

Duty of

officers at

the scene of

crash.

B 1606

Rules on the

on public

Rules on use

of bicycles

roads and

wearing of

helmet.

payment of

registration,

and weighing

fees.

bodies.

B 1608

Establish-

safety unit

by operators

of transport

services.

transport

service

operators.

Formatted: Indent: First line:  0"

B 1609

drivers,

vehicles,

routes plied

road

crashes

their causes,

submit

same

on

regular basis

to

200.—

(1) A vehicle

owner

shall

not operate a

being

registered

a

licenced

association

(2) All

Associations

Unions

be

by

Commission

have

marks

as

may

prescribed by

authority

from time to

(3) Any

or union that

contravenes

provisions of

this

regulation

commits

an

offence and

liable on conviction to a fine of     N200,000 or to a term of two years

B 1610

Continuous

education of

Code of

ethics for

and unions.

operation of

ambulance

Colour of

ambulances.

B 1611

Periodic

Require-

ments for

towing

Designation

of premises

as motor

parks.

Driving or

footways or

pavement.

Marks on

be clear and

legible at all

times.

inspect

B 1613

Requirement

to weigh or

reweigh

signs.

and plants

used in

and fire

engine or

pumps.

in respect of

Government

Codes.

furniture,

signals,

notices,

certification.

Offences in

relation to

licences and

permits

under these

comply with

of these

issue notice

of offence or

ticket.

prescribe

additional

precautionary

measures.

B 1615

Amendment

of use of

certain roads.

Guidelines

for states.

Conflict with

other

Fleeing or

attempting to

flee from a

corps member.

Disregarding

signs on

roads under

construction.

of car and

speed races.

Information

in relation to

road traffic

offenders.

Revocation

of the

National

Regulations,

2004.

Interpreta-

tion.

B 1617

Citation.

B 1621

B 1622

B 1623

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA NATIONAL

MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION

APPLICATION FORM

(Forms should be filled in capital letter)

Applicant’s

Passport

(i)      Registration Centre …...…..………………………………………………………

Name of State/Establishment ……………………....………………...………….

Licensing Area/Ministry Department ……………………………….....……….

(ii)      Vehicle Details………………………..……………………………………………

Make………………………………………Model………………………………

Type……………………………………………………………………………….

Saloon/Pick-Up Wagon/Bus/Tanker/Tricycle/Motorcycle/Truck/etc (Specify pls)

Colour..………………………………………………..................………………....

Chassis No …………………………… Engine no. ……………............………

Engine Capacity ………………………………….....................................……….

State Purpose …………………………………………...…………………………

Private/Commercial/Government/(Para) Military

CONDITION OF VEHICLE

Date of Last Vehicle Inspection …...……………………………………....……

Road Worthiness Certification ……………………………………......……….

TestingAuthority ……………………………………………………………….

Previous Registration no (if any) ……………………………......…………….

Name of LicensingAuthority …………………………………………………..

(iii)      OWNER’S INFORMATION

Name ..............................…………………………………………………………...

State Status ……………………....………………………………………………..

Agency/Ministry/Company/Navy/Police/Society/Private/etc

Address ….................……………………………………………………………...

Town …………………Tel. No. if any ………….....… Mobile No. ….........…

(iv)      Special Vehicle Identification Number …….......……………………………….

(v)      Declaration …................…………………………………………………………...

I hereby Confirm that the Information provided above is true. I am aware

that I can be held responsible for any misrepresentation

Name of Applicant …………………………….. Signature………………….

Address ofApplicant ……….....………………………………………………

Date of application……………………………………………………………..

For official use only (as applicable)

A.      Vehicle Identification Number Allocated …................…………………………

B.      Number Plate Fees……………………………………….………………………..

C.      Receipt Number…………………………………........….…………….…………

Authorising officer …………………………Code No ………………………...

Signature ………………………………....... Date ………….........……………

B 1624

SCHEDULE 1                          ( Regulation 5 (4) )

FORM MVA2

UNIFORM LICENSING SCHEME APPLICATION

FOR OUT OF SERIES AND FANCY NUMBER

PLATES

A.    Name of Owner…………………..................……………....................................

Address………………………………………………….....……………………...

Tel No ……………………… Mobile No …………….…………………………

Fax…………………………..e-mail….……………………………………………

Engine Number……………….......……………………………………………….

Chassis Number…………………….Colour…………………………………….

Vehicle Make …………………………………Type (Saloon, Jeep, etc)

Previous Vehicle Number (If Any) …………...…………………………………

Vehicle Identification Mark Proposed ……………………………………........

B.    Declaration

I declare that the information provided in this application is true and binding

and that MVA Form 01 has been completed in respect of this request.

...............................................................                .............................................................

Name of Applicant                                           Signature & Date

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

C.    To : Deputy Director (NULS)

This request is recommended for production, please.

Fee Paid N ………..........................................................................…………………

Amount in Words………….............................………………………..…………….

Receipt Number ………..……....................................................................................

.................................................................                ............................................................

Name of State Licensing Officer                           Signature/Stamp & Date

Deputy Director (NULS)’ Remarks (Approved/Not

Approved)…………. Reasons

…………………………………...........................…………………………

……………….........……………………………………………………………………………

………………………………………         ……………………………………………..

Name of Deputy Director (ULS)                      Signature/Stamp & Date

B 1625

Complete Form in duplicate

SCHEDULE 1                   (Regulations 4 and 7)

FORM MVA 3

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA MOTOR

VEHICLE CHANGE OF CATEGORY/ RE -

REGISTRATION APPLICATION FORM

Licencing Office ……………………………… State …………………………………....

Applicant’s Name……………………………..……………………………………………

(Surname)                (Other Names)

Address ……………………………................……………………………………………..

…………………………………………….........................…………………………………..

Tel No ……………………… Mobile No …………………..…………....………………..

(Licensing Office must be informed of Change in Address)

VEHICLE INFORMATION

Registration No ...................................................................................................................

Engine No ............................................................................................................................

Chassis

No

...........................................................................................................................

Make : ……………………………………… Type …………………………….... Proof of

ownership No……………………………………………………………………

Reasons for Re-registration ……………………………………………………………...

REGISTRATION  CATEGORY

(i)    Private to Commercial

(ii)    Commercial to Private

(iii)    Private to Private

(iv)    Fancy to Standard

(Tick the appropriate column)

Sign ………………………………………… Date …………………………...

………………………………………                 ……........………………………

Applicant’s Signature                                              Date

FOR  ALL VEHICLES

Certificate of Road Worthiness No ….......................................………………………....

Date of Issue ………………………………………..…………............................…….....

Weight of LoadAuthorised ……….……………………………………………………...

Gross

.......................................................................................................................

……………………………….…                     ……………………………………

Name of Licensing Officer                                     Signature/Date

SCHEDULE 1                         (Regulation 10)

FORM MVA 4

Address of Registration Authority with

Whom this vehicle is registered

…………………………………………..

…………………………………………….

……………………………………………

Date of Registration …………………………………………........……………

Official Stamp

B 1629

Particulars of Vehicle                                                        Original

Identification Mark

Registered Category

Make

Type of body

Model

Engine No.

Chassis No.

Year of Manufacture

New Weight

Cubic Capacity

Commercial Vehicles only

Weight authorised to carry

Gross Weight


Suspension or Revocation:

1.  The Authority may suspend or revoke the registration certificate and licence if fake

spare parts are discovered in the business premises or are being sold by the owner of the

licence and the Authority may direct the sealing of the business premises.

2.  The Owner of the suspended or revoked certificate and licence may appeal to any

3. Where the Authority discovers substandard or fake spare parts he shall direct the

removal of such spare parts from circulation.

4. It shall be an offence for any spare parts dealer not to be registered as stipulated

under these Regulations.

B 1645

SCHEDULE 1                  (Regulation 32 (7) (c))

FORM MVA 10C

VEHICLE/MOTORCYCLE DEALERSHIP

REGISTRATION FORM

INSTRUCTIONS :

(i) The objective of this Vehicle Dealership Census is for statistics and regula-

tory purposes.

(ii) This Form is to be completed in triplicates.

(iii) Where the space provided is inadequate, please attach additional sheet(s)

(iv)  Completed Forms should be returned to the Sector Commander of the

Federal Road Safety Corps, of the registering State.

1. Name of Company .............................................................................................................

2. Address of Company ........................................................................................................

.....................................................................................................................................................

Phone/E-mail ............................................................................................................................

3. Names and Address of Directors

A .......................................................................................................................................

Address ......................................................................................................................

Tel/Mobile No ............................................................................................................

B ........................................................................................................................................

Address.......................................................................................................................

Tel/Mobile No ................................................................................................................

C ........................................................................................................................................

Tel/Mobile No ...........................................................................................................

D .......................................................................................................................................

......................................................................................................................

E ........................................................................................................................................

4.  Is the Company formally registered with Corporate Affairs Commission?

Yes                    No

B 1646

(a) If Yes, State Registration Number .......................................................................

(b) Date of Registration .............................................................................................

5.      Is The Company a member of any Trade Association?     Yes            No

If Yes, State The Name and Address of the Association ........................................

..........................................................................................................................................

6.      Names of the Executive Members of the Association .............................................

..........................................................................................................................

7.      Do you engage in sales of vehicle only?    Yes             No

If not, what other services  .........................................................................................

8.      Do you have a repair garage?    Yes ................................  No ...............................

If Yes, do you have qualified/trained technicians? Yes .................. No................

STATEMENT OF RESULT OF A DRIVING TEST

Name …........................................……………………………………………………………...

Address …………………………………................................………………………………

Has this day been examined on a vehicle of group …………………………………….

and has failed/ passed the test of competence to drive prescribed for the purpose of

the Road Traffic Regulations (PART VI) (Drivers Licences) (Regulation 29 ).

Date ……………………………….                                ……………………………..

Testing Officer

Note 1 : No further test on a vehicle of the same group can be undertaken until the

expiry of one calendar month.

Guidance :

Examiners have regard to the points listed in deciding whether a candidate is

competent to drive. Before submitting yourself for another driving test you will be

well advised to give special attention to the items which the Examiner has marked.

The fact that an item has been marked does not necessarily mean that the

examiner was completely satisfied. The items marked are those regarded as most

important in your care.

1. Knowledge of the contents of the Highway Code.

2. Ability to read a motor car number plate at 25yards in good daylight (with the

aid of glasses, if worn).

3. Show courtesy and consideration for the safety and convenience of other

road users: pedestrians/ drivers/cyclists.

4. Take suitable precautions before starting the engine.

5.  Move away safely and smoothly /straight ahead or/at an angle/ on a gradient.

6. Overtake /meet/or cross/ the part of other vehicles safely.

7. Take precautions at cross roads and/or road junctions

(i) Adjustment of speed on approach

(ii) Proper use of mirror, signals, brakes, and/or gear on approach.

(iii) Correct positioning of the vehicle before /after turning left/right.

(iv) Avoiding of cutting left hand corners.

(v) Looking right/left/and right again before crossing.

8. Stop the vehicle normally/in a safe position/ in emergency under control.

9. Revise the vehicle normally/ in a safe position/in emergency under control.

B 1657

10. Turn the vehicle into a limited opening either to the right or left under

control/and with reasonable accuracy.

11. Give the Highway Code signals/in good time/ clearly and unmistakably by

hand/and by mechanical indicators fitted to the vehicle.

12. Take correct and prompt action on all signals by traffic signs/traffic

controllers/and appropriate action on signs given by other road users.

13. Act correctly at pedestrians crossing.

14. Regulate speed to suit varying road traffic conditions.

15. Keep well to the right in normal driving.

16. Make proper use of the front brake (motor cyclists).

17. Take rear observation (motor-cyclists).

18. Make proper use of the mirror before signaling/bending and maneuvering/

moving away/altering course to over take/turning right/or stopping.

19. Make proper use of accelerator, clutch, gears, brakes (hand/foot), steering.

20. Show anticipation of the actions of pedestrians/drivers/cyclists.

Driving examiners are not Permitted to discuss details of the test

Any complaints or queries arising out of your failure to pass the prescribed

test should be addressed to the Chief Vehicle Inspector Officer of the State or the

Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, as applicable.



SCHEDULE 5                    (Regulation 39 (3) (a))

NUMBER PLATE DIMENSIONS

FIGURE 3

PRIVATEAND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES

Country Flag

Name of State

Name of Country

Vehicle Number

FIGURE 4                                (Regulation 39 (3))

(c)

ARMED FORCES VEHICLES

Coat of Arms

Name of Armed Forces

Vehicle Group

Code for Armed

Forces

B 1675

SCHEDULE 5           (Regulation 39 (3) (b), (4))

FIGURE 5. GOVERNMENT

Local Government Code

Local Government/

Area Council Identification

Name of Ministry or Parastatal

Code of Ministry Group Code

Vehicle  Group  Code

Name  of  Country

Vehicle  Number

State/Fed. Gov. Code

B 1676

SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (a) )

TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR COMMERCIAL

AND PRIVATE VEHICLES

FIGURE 6

TYPICAL NUMBER PLATES FOR COMMERCIAL AND PRIVATE VEHICLES

Commercial Vehicles                                                                       Private Vehicles

B 1677

SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (b) )

TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR MILITARY AND

GOVERNMENT VEHICLES

FIGURE 7

TYPICAL NUMBER PLATES FOR MILITARYAND GOVERNMENT VEHICLES

(a)  Government Vehicles                                        (b)         Military Vehicles

Colour Code : Green on White                                       Colour Code : Black

on White

B 1678

SCHEDULE 5                   (Regulation 39 (4) (c) )

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA TYPICAL

SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR

PARAMILITARYVEHICLES

FIGURE 8

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA            FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

Colour Code : Black on White

B 1679

SCHEDULE 5

(Regulation 5 (1) and (2))

TYPICAL SAMPLES OF SPECIAL NUMBER PLATES

FIGURE 9

SPECIAL NUMBERS

FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA               FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

B 1680

(Regulation 31)

{

FIGURE 10

DEALER’S NUMBERS

SKYMIT  MOTORS

0

Authorised

Dealer

Individual

Code DL A         548   1

(Alphanumeric)

Dealer Number

State Code

Dealer’s Code

GENERAL MOTORS

DKN  135   3

OGO OLUWA

DOS  283   2

AIR FORCE

DIM  333   5

PAN

DKD  637   8

Colur Code : Red on White

B 1681

(Regulation 39 (4) (e))

TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR

DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES

FIGURE 11

TYPICAL SAMPLES OF NUMBER PLATES FOR DIPLOMATIC VEHICLES

Colour Code : White on Black or Red Background

B 1682

SCHEDULE  6                     Regulation 56 (2) (h)

TRAFFIC CONTROL AND HAND SIGNALS

B 1683

SCHEDULE 7

(Regulations 56 (2) (h) and 159 (2))

ARMS SIGNALS

When indicators or stop lights are not fitted (or are faulty).

Also for use by pedal cyclists and those in charge of horses


CAUTION:   If you do not wish to be PROSECUTED, you may   pay the prescribed penalty to the

specified bank and present the original teller to FRSC office (See details Overleaf).

Tick Infringement(s), Points, Penalty

2. Assaulting Marshal On Duty AMD  10,000

3. Category Attempting To Corrupt Marshal On Duty ACS
4. Caution Sign Violation CSV 3,000
5. Construction Area Speed Limit Violation CAV 50,000

6.Do Not Move Violation DNM 2,000

7.Driver’s Licence Violation DLV

8.DUI 5,000

9.Driving With Worn-out Tyre TYV

10. Driving With Expired/Without Spare Tyre EWT

11. Excessive Smoke Emission ESE

12. Failure To Cover Unstable Materials FCM

13. Failure To Fix Red Flag On Projected Load FFF

14. Failure to Move Over FMO

15. Failure to Report Road Crash FRC 20,000

16. Fire Extinguisher Violation FEV

17. Inadequate Construction Warning Sign ICW

18. Light/Sign Violation

19. Medical Personnel/Hospital Rejection of Road Crash Victim RCV

20. Operating Mechanically Deficient Vehicle

21. Obstructing Marshal on Duty OMD

22. Operating A Vehicle with  Forged Documents OFD

23. Overloading

24. Passengers’ Manifest Violation PMV

25. Riding Motorcycle without Using Crash Helmet RMH

26. Road Obstruction ROB

27. Road Marking Violation RMV

28. Route Violation RT

29. Seat Belt Use Violation SUV

30. Speed Limit Violation SLV

31. Unauthorised Removal/Tampering With Road Sign UTS

32. Under Age Driving/Riding UDR

33. Use of Phone While Driving UPD 4,000

34. Vehicle Licence Violation VLV

35. Number Plate Violation NPV

36. Vehicle Windshield Violation VWV

37. Wrongful Overtaking WOV

38. Projected Load In Excess Of Prescribed Limit PLE

39. Vehicle Mirror ViolationV MV

40. Learners Driving Regulation Violation LDV

41. Child Restraint ViolationCRV

42. Child Sitting Position ViolationCPV

43. Driving Right-Hand Steering VehicleDRV

44. Other Offences/ViolationsOFV

Note : Custody fee on impounded Motor vehicle and Motorcycle/tricycle is N200.00 and N100, respectively

per day  payable after initial 24 hours of grace

B 1695

Do you wish to waive your Right to a court trial?

If yes, pay the prescribed fine(s) in any of the designated Banks and bring the Teller to the FRSC office.

DESIGNATED BANKS

FIRST BANK         KEYSTONE BANK        UNION BANK                     UBA              UNITY BANK

A/C NO 2013278058         A/C NO 1000661806       A/C NO. 0021447034        A /C NO. 1013703708    A/C NO 14024142250

For further explanations, visit www.frsc.gov.ng/offences